

753. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Feb 6;115(6):1364-1369. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1717016115. Epub 2018 Jan 3.

Transient visual pathway critical for normal development of primate grasping
behavior.

Mundinano IC(1), Fox DM(1), Kwan WC(1), Vidaurre D(2), Teo L(1), Homman-Ludiye
J(1), Goodale MA(3), Leopold DA(4), Bourne JA(5).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia.
(2)Oxford Centre for Human Brain Activity, Department of Psychiatry, University
of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7JX, United Kingdom.
(3)The Brain and Mind Institute, The University of Western Ontario, London, ON,
Canada N6A 5B7.
(4)Laboratory of Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, 
MD 20892.
(5)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton, VIC
3800, Australia; james.bourne@monash.edu.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 Feb 6;115(6):1143-1144.

An evolutionary hallmark of anthropoid primates, including humans, is the use of 
vision to guide precise manual movements. These behaviors are reliant on a
specialized visual input to the posterior parietal cortex. Here, we show that
normal primate reaching-and-grasping behavior depends critically on a visual
pathway through the thalamic pulvinar, which is thought to relay information to
the middle temporal (MT) area during early life and then swiftly withdraws. Small
MRI-guided lesions to a subdivision of the inferior pulvinar subnucleus (PIm) in 
the infant marmoset monkey led to permanent deficits in reaching-and-grasping
behavior in the adult. This functional loss coincided with the abnormal
anatomical development of multiple cortical areas responsible for the guidance of
actions. Our study reveals that the transient retino-pulvinar-MT pathway
underpins the development of visually guided manual behaviors in primates that
are crucial for interacting with complex features in the environment.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1717016115 
PMCID: PMC5819431
PMID: 29298912  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

