

758. Biochem Pharmacol. 2018 Jul;153:184-195. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.12.015. Epub
2017 Dec 23.

Genetic polymorphisms of drug-metabolizing cytochrome P450 enzymes in cynomolgus 
and rhesus monkeys and common marmosets in preclinical studies for humans.

Uno Y(1), Uehara S(2), Yamazaki H(3).

Author information: 
(1)Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama 642-0017, Japan.
(2)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan.
(3)Showa Pharmaceutical University, Machida, Tokyo 194-8543, Japan. Electronic
address: hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis, Old World Monkeys) and common marmosets 
(Callithrix jacchus, New World Monkeys) have been widely, and expectedly, used as
non-human primate models in drug development studies. Major drug-metabolizing
cytochrome P450 (P450) enzymes information is now available that supports these
primate species as animal models, and it is established that multiple forms of
cynomolgus monkey and common marmoset P450 enzymes have generally similar
substrate recognition functionality to human P450 enzymes. This research update
provides information on genetic polymorphisms of P450 enzymes in cynomolgus
monkey and common marmoset like human P450 enzymes. Information on rhesus monkeys
(Macaca mulatta), another macaque species used in drug metabolism studies, is
also included for comparison. Among a variety of cynomolgus monkey P450 variants 
investigated, typical examples include individual pharmacokinetic data for
efavirenz and R-warfarin associated with cynomolgus monkey P450 2C9 (formerly
2C43) and 2C19 (2C75) variants, respectively, and for R-omeprazole and S-warfarin
associated with marmoset P450 2C19 variants. These findings provide a foundation 
for understanding the individual pharmacokinetic and toxicological results in
non-human primates as preclinical models and will help to further support
understanding of molecular mechanisms of human P450 function. In addition to
these polymorphic P450 enzymes, effects of aging on some drug clearances mediated
by cynomolgus monkey and common marmoset P450 enzymes were found in elder animals
or animals pretreated with rifampicin. This review describes genetic and acquired
individual differences in cynomolgus monkey and common marmoset P450 enzymes
involved in drug oxidation associated with pharmacological and/or toxicological
effects.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.12.015 
PMID: 29277691  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

