

763. J Neural Transm (Vienna). 2018 Sep;125(9):1355-1360. doi:
10.1007/s00702-017-1830-8. Epub 2017 Dec 15.

Trazodone alleviates both dyskinesia and psychosis in the parkinsonian marmoset
model of Parkinson's disease.

Hamadjida A(1), Nuara SG(2), Gourdon JC(2), Huot P(3)(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information: 
(1)Centre de Recherche du Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(2)Comparative Medicine and Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal, 
QC, Canada.
(3)Centre de Recherche du Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, 
Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(5)Unité des Troubles du Mouvement André Barbeau, Centre Hospitalier de
l'Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(6)Division of Neurology, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal,
Montreal, QC, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.
(7)Montreal Neurological Institute, 3801 University St, BT 209, Montreal, QC, H3A
2B4, Canada. philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Trazodone is a clinically available anti-depressant that exhibits affinity for
serotonin 1A and 2A receptors, as well as for alpha-adrenoceptors, suggesting
that it may be useful to treat L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced
dyskinesia and psychosis that are encountered in advanced Parkinson's disease
(PD). Here, we investigated the anti-dyskinetic and anti-psychotic effects of
trazodone in the parkinsonian non-human primate. 6 common marmosets were rendered
parkinsonian by administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine
(MPTP). Following repeated administration of L-DOPA to induce stable dyskinesia
and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs), trazodone (0.1, 1 and 10 mg/kg) or vehicle 
was administered in combination with L-DOPA and its effects on dyskinesia, PLBs
and parkinsonism were determined. The addition of trazodone 10 mg/kg to L-DOPA
reduced peak dose dyskinesia by ≈ 39% (P < 0.01) and peak dose PLBs by ≈ 17%
(P < 0.01). However, parkinsonian disability was significantly worsened by
trazodone 10 mg/kg (P < 0.05) and duration of anti-parkinsonian action was
diminished by ≈ 21% (P < 0.05). Our results suggest that trazodone may be
effective in alleviating L-DOPA-induced dyskinesia and psychosis in PD, but its
deleterious effect on motor function is a concern and may limit its tolerability 
and usefulness in clinical settings.

DOI: 10.1007/s00702-017-1830-8 
PMID: 29247391  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

