

766. Chronobiol Int. 2018 Jan;35(1):35-48. doi: 10.1080/07420528.2017.1380658. Epub
2017 Dec 6.

Forced desynchronization model for a diurnal primate.

Silva CA(1)(2), Melo LIM(1), Pires AR(1), Barbalho JC(1), Melo AV(1), Fernandes
DAC(1), Oliveira EB(1), Azevedo CVM(1), Cambras T(3), Díez-Noguera A(3),
Fontenele-Araujo J(1).

Author information: 
(1)a Laboratório de Neurobiologia e Ritmicidade Biológica, Departamento de
Fisiologia , Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte , Natal , Rio Grande do 
Norte , Brazil.
(2)b Departamento de Neuropsiquiatria , Universidade Federal de Pernambuco ,
Recife , Pernambuco , Brazil.
(3)c Departament de Fisiologia, Facultat de Farmàcia , Universitat de Barcelona ,
Barcelona , Spain.

The circadian system is organized in a hierarchy of multiple oscillators, with
the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) as the master oscillator in mammals. The SCN is
formed by a group of coupled cell oscillators. Knowledge of this coupling
mechanism is essential to understanding entrainment and the expression of
circadian rhythms. Some authors suggest that light-dark (LD) cycles with periods 
near the limit of entrainment may be good models for promoting internal
desynchronization, providing knowledge about the coupling mechanism. As such, we 
evaluated the circadian activity rhythm (CAR) pattern of marmosets in LD cycles
at lower limits of entrainment in order to study induced internal dissociation.
To that end, two experiments were conducted: (1) 6 adult females were under
symmetrical LD cycles T21, T22 and T21.5 for 60, 35 and 48 days, respectively;
and (2) 4 male and 4 female adults were under T21 for 24 days followed by 18 days
of LL, back to T21 for 24 days, followed by 14 days of LL. The CAR of each animal
was continuously recorded. In experiment 1, vocalizations were also recorded.
Under Ts shorter than 24 days, a dissociation pattern was observed for CAR and
vocalizations. Two simultaneous circadian components emerged, one with the same
period as the LD cycle, called the light-entrained component, and the other in
free-running, denominated the non-light-entrained component. Both components were
displayed in the CAR for all the animals in T21, five animals (83.3%) in T21.5
and two animals (33.3%) in T22. Our results are in accordance with the
multioscillatory nature of the circadian system. Dissociation is partial
synchronization to the LD cycle, with at least one group of oscillators
synchronized by relative coordination and masking, while another group of
oscillators free runs, but is also masked by the LD cycle. Since only T21
promoted the emergence of both circadian components in the circadian rhythms of
all marmosets, it was considered the promoter period of circadian rhythm
dissociation in this species, and is proposed as a good animal model for forced
desynchronization in non-human diurnal primates.

DOI: 10.1080/07420528.2017.1380658 
PMID: 29211510  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

