

768. Neurobiol Dis. 2018 Mar;111:1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2017.11.016. Epub 2017 Dec
2.

Reduced post-stroke glial scarring in the infant primate brain reflects
age-related differences in the regulation of astrogliosis.

Teo L(1), Boghdadi AG(2), de Souza M(3), Bourne JA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, 15 Innovation Walk, Monash
University, Victoria, 3800, Australia. Electronic address: leon.teo@monash.edu.
(2)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, 15 Innovation Walk, Monash
University, Victoria, 3800, Australia. Electronic address:
Anthony.Boghdadi@monash.edu.
(3)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, 15 Innovation Walk, Monash
University, Victoria, 3800, Australia. Electronic address:
Mitchell.deSouza@monash.edu.
(4)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, 15 Innovation Walk, Monash
University, Victoria, 3800, Australia. Electronic address:
James.Bourne@monash.edu.

Ischemic stroke remains a leading cause of disability worldwide. Surviving
patients often suffer permanent neurological impairments, and spontaneous
recovery rarely occurs. However, observations that early-life brain injuries,
including strokes, elicit less severe long-term functional impairments, compared 
to adults, continue to intrigue. While much research has focussed on neuronal
changes and plasticity, less is known regarding the regulation of astrogliosis
and glial scar formation after a stroke at different stages of life. Therefore,
we investigated the cellular, molecular and temporal differences in chronic scar 
development in the infant and adult nonhuman primate (NHP) post-stroke as it
bears greater clinical relevance in the close temporal and pathophysiological
homology with humans. This project utilized the endothelin-1 model of focal
ischemic stroke in the infant and adult primary visual cortex and investigated
differences in the subacute and chronic period. We report here that the
post-stroke infant neocortex generates a smaller, more discrete chronic scar,
correlating to greater neuronal sparing. Reactive astrocytes that comprise the
chronic scar are generated earlier in infants compared to adults, and the
expression of critical markers of astrocyte reactivity differs in the subacute
period between post-stroke infants and adults. Most importantly, we report that
unlike adults, infant astrocyte reactivity is not dependent on several crucial
regulators: signal transducer and activator of transcription 3, lipocalin2 and
collagen I. Our results demonstrate that infant reactive astrocytes are not
regulated by the same intrinsic and extrinsic factors that control these
processes in adults, resulting in a more discrete chronic glial scar that is more
permissible to neuronal sparing.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2017.11.016 
PMID: 29203280  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

