

769. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2018 Jan;38(1):174-185. doi:
10.1161/ATVBAHA.117.310337. Epub 2017 Nov 30.

Both Autocrine Signaling and Paracrine Signaling of HB-EGF Enhance Ocular
Neovascularization.

Inoue Y(1), Shimazawa M(1), Nakamura S(1), Takata S(1), Hashimoto Y(1), Izawa
H(1), Masuda T(1), Tsuruma K(1), Sakaue T(1), Nakayama H(1), Higashiyama S(1),
Hara H(2).

Author information: 
(1)From the Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu 
Pharmaceutical University, Japan (Y.I., M.S., S.N., S.T., Y.H., H.I., T.M., K.T.,
H.H.); Proteo-Science Center, Division of Cell Growth and Tumor Regulation, Ehime
University Shitsukawa, Toon, Japan (T.S., H.N., S.H.); and Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Shitsukawa, Toon, Japan (T.S., S.H.).
(2)From the Molecular Pharmacology, Department of Biofunctional Evaluation, Gifu 
Pharmaceutical University, Japan (Y.I., M.S., S.N., S.T., Y.H., H.I., T.M., K.T.,
H.H.); Proteo-Science Center, Division of Cell Growth and Tumor Regulation, Ehime
University Shitsukawa, Toon, Japan (T.S., H.N., S.H.); and Department of
Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Ehime University Graduate School of
Medicine, Shitsukawa, Toon, Japan (T.S., S.H.). hidehara@gifu-pu.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVE: The incidence of blindness is increasing because of the increase in
abnormal ocular neovascularization. Anti-VEGF (vascular endothelial growth
factor) therapies have led to good results, although they are not a cure for the 
blindness. The purpose of this study was to determine what role HB-EGF
(heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor) plays in ocular
angiogenesis.
APPROACH AND RESULTS: We examined the role played by HB-EGF in ocular
neovascularization in 2 animal models of neovascularization: laser-induced
choroidal neovascularization (CNV) and oxygen-induced retinopathy. We also
studied human retinal microvascular endothelial cells in culture. Our results
showed that the neovascularization was decreased in both the CNV and
oxygen-induced retinopathy models in HB-EGF conditional knockout mice compared
with that in wild-type mice. Moreover, the expressions of HB-EGF and VEGF were
increased after laser-induced CNV and oxygen-induced retinopathy, and their
expression sites were located around the neovascular areas. Exposure of human
retinal microvascular endothelial cells to HB-EGF and VEGF increased their
proliferation and migration, and CRM-197 (cross-reactive material-197), an HB-EGF
inhibitor, decreased the HB-EGF-induced and VEGF-induced cell proliferation and
migration. VEGF increased the expression of HB-EGF mRNA. VEGF-dependent
activation of EGFR (epidermal growth factor receptor)/ERK1/2 (extracellular
signal-regulated kinase 1/2) signaling and cell proliferation of endothelial
cells required stimulation of the ADAM17 (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) and 
ADAM12. CRM-197 decreased the grades of the fluorescein angiograms and size of
the CNV areas in marmoset monkeys.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that HB-EGF plays an important role in the
development of CNV. Therefore, further investigations of HB-EGF are needed as a
potential therapeutic target in the treatment of exudative age-related macular
degeneration.

Â© 2017 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.117.310337 
PMID: 29191924  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

