

770. Brain Struct Funct. 2018 May;223(4):1599-1614. doi: 10.1007/s00429-017-1574-0.
Epub 2017 Nov 28.

Organization of auditory areas in the superior temporal gyrus of marmoset monkeys
revealed by real-time optical imaging.

Nishimura M(1), Takemoto M(1), Song WJ(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Sensory and Cognitive Physiology, Graduate School of Medical
Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan.
(2)Department of Sensory and Cognitive Physiology, Graduate School of Medical
Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. song@kumamoto-u.ac.jp.
(3)Program for Leading Graduate Schools HIGO Program, Kumamoto University,
Kumamoto, 860-8556, Japan. song@kumamoto-u.ac.jp.

The prevailing model of the primate auditory cortex proposes a core-belt-parabelt
structure. The model proposes three auditory areas in the lateral belt region;
however, it may contain more, as this region has been mapped only at a limited
spatial resolution. To explore this possibility, we examined the auditory areas
in the lateral belt region of the marmoset using a high-resolution optical
imaging technique. Based on responses to pure tones, we identified multiple areas
in the superior temporal gyrus. The three areas in the core region, the primary
area (A1), the rostral area (R), and the rostrotemporal area, were readily
identified from their frequency gradients and positions immediately ventral to
the lateral sulcus. Three belt areas were identified with frequency gradients and
relative positions to A1 and R that were in agreement with previous studies: the 
caudolateral area, the middle lateral area, and the anterolateral area (AL).
Situated between R and AL, however, we identified two additional areas. The first
was located caudoventral to R with a frequency gradient in the ventrocaudal
direction, which we named the medial anterolateral (MAL) area. The second was a
small area with no obvious tonotopy (NT), positioned between the MAL and AL
areas. Both the MAL and NT areas responded to a wide range of frequencies (at
least 2-24Â kHz). Our results suggest that the belt region caudoventral to R is
more complex than previously proposed, and we thus call for a refinement of the
current primate auditory cortex model.

DOI: 10.1007/s00429-017-1574-0 
PMID: 29185107  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

