

776. Indian J Med Res. 2017 Jul;146(1):126-137. doi: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_927_15.

Bisphenol A-induced ultrastructural changes in the testes of common marmoset.

Vijaykumar T(1), Singh D(1), Vanage GR(1), Dhumal RV(1), Dighe VD(1).

Author information: 
(1)National Centre for Preclinical Reproductive & Genetic Toxicology,
ICMR-National Institute for Research in Reproductive Health, Mumbai, India.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Bisphenol A (BPA) is an endocrine disruptor that is
widely used in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastics, epoxy resins and dental
sealants. It is known to have adverse effects on spermatogenesis in rodents. This
study was aimed to evaluate the effects of BPA in adult common marmoset owing to 
its similarities with human spermatogenesis.
METHODS: Sixteen marmosets were divided into four groups (n=4 per group) and
given oral doses of BPA (2.5, 12.5 and 25 μg/kg BW/day) for 70 days to cover two 
spermatogenic cycles, and the control group received only vehicle (honey). Testes
were processed for histological and transmission electron microscopy studies.
RESULTS: Histology of the testis showed sloughing of germ cells into the lumen,
increase in interstitial space and vacuolation of Sertoli cell cytoplasm.
Ultrastructural analysis of the testis revealed several degenerative effects on
the basement membrane, Sertoli cells, Leydig cells and other developing germ
cells in the 12.5 and 25 μg/kg BW/day groups as compared to control.
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: The observed ultrastructural changes caused by BPA 
in testicular morphology might be indicative of a perturbed sperm production.
Considering the genetic and spermatogenic similarities of common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus) and humans, the study findings are of significance. Further 
studies are, however, needed to elucidate the mechanism of action.

DOI: 10.4103/ijmr.IJMR_927_15 
PMCID: PMC5719597
PMID: 29168469  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

