

78. Behav Processes. 2021 Nov;192:104495. doi: 10.1016/j.beproc.2021.104495. Epub
2021 Sep 4.

Detection of conspicuous and cryptic food by common marmosets (Callithrix
jacchus): An evaluation of the importance of color and shape cues.

Barros PKS(1), Castro FN(2), Pessoa DMA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil; Primate Center, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil.
(2)Laboratory of Human Behavior Evolution, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Sensory Ecology, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil; Primate Center, Department of Physiology and Behavior,
Biosciences Center, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, Natal, RN,
59072-970, Brazil. Electronic address: daniel.pessoa@ufrn.br.

In primates, the advantage of trichromacy (i.e., color vision expressed by most
humans) over dichromacy (i.e., color vision expressed by many colorblind humans) 
has been linked to the detection of yellowish/reddish targets against a
background of mature green leaves. Nevertheless, mostly because of studies
conducted in humans, we know that achromatic cues might also play an important
role in object identification, particularly when camouflage is involved. For
instance, dichromacy favors the detection of camouflaged targets by exploitation 
of shape cues. The present study sought to evaluate the relative importance of
color and shape cues on the detection of food targets by female and male
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). Animals were observed with respect to their
foraging behavior and the number of food targets captured. We confirmed that
females are advantageous in detecting conspicuous food against a green background
and revealed that females and males rely on shape cues to segregate cryptic food.
Unexpectedly, males outperformed females in cryptic food foraging, while
camouflage improved males' (but not females') performance. Here we show that
dichromats could potentially benefit from a better segregation of green natural
targets (e.g., immature fruits, green insects, and gum trees) when viewed against
a green dappled background.

Copyright Â© 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beproc.2021.104495 
PMID: 34487831  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

