

784. Behav Pharmacol. 2017 Dec;28(8):670-680. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000353.

Differential effects of dopaminergic drugs on spontaneous motor activity in the
common marmoset following pretreatment with a bilateral brain infusion of
6-hydroxydopamine.

Ando K(1), Nishime C, Inoue R, Nishinaka E, Kawai K, Urano K, Tsutsumi H.

Author information: 
(1)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.

The differential effects of dopaminergic drugs with different pharmacological
profiles were investigated with respect to spontaneous motor activity in the
common marmoset following pretreatment with a bilateral brain infusion of
6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA). Three marmosets received infusions of 6-OHDA (either 
30 or 40 μg/side) into the bilateral dopamine-rich area running from the
substantia nigra to the striatum. The motor activity of the 6-OHDA marmosets was 
compared with that of three intact marmosets. Following the administration of
apomorphine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg, subcutaneously), the 6-OHDA group showed a tendency
toward a brief increase in activity counts, suggesting denervation
supersensitivity at the dopamine receptors. After the administration of
methamphetamine (1 and 2 mg/kg, subcutaneously), the 6-OHDA group showed a
significant decrease in activity counts, indicating limited dopamine release from
the degenerated neurons. After the administration of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine
(10 and 20 mg/kg, orally), the 6-OHDA group showed a significant increase in
activity counts without hyperexcitation, consistent with the contribution of
exogenous L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine toward dopamine synthesis in the
degenerated neurons. The present findings indicate that bilateral brain infusion 
of 6-OHDA in the marmoset may have preclinical utility as a primate model for
investigating the behavioral properties of dopaminergic drugs in brains with
dopaminergic neural deficits.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000353 
PMCID: PMC5690296
PMID: 29099404  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

