

786. Theriogenology. 2018 Jan 15;106:221-226. doi:
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2017.10.023. Epub 2017 Oct 22.

Quality of common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) oocytes collected after ovarian
stimulation.

Kanda A(1), Nobukiyo A(1), Yoshioka M(1), Hatakeyama T(1), Sotomaru Y(2).

Author information: 
(1)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, 1-2-3 Kasumi, Minami-ku, Hiroshima 734-8551, Japan.
(2)Natural Science Center for Basic Research and Development, Hiroshima
University, 1-2-3 Kasumi, Minami-ku, Hiroshima 734-8551, Japan. Electronic
address: sotomaru@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is an experimental animal that is
considered suitable for the creation of next-generation human disease models. It 
has recently been used in the reproductive technology field. Oocytes can be
effectively collected from female marmosets via ovarian stimulation with
injections of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and human chorionic gonadotropin
(hCG). The oocytes, collected about 28 h after the hCG injection, include both
premature oocytes and postmature (in vivo matured; IVO) oocytes, and the
premature oocytes can be matured by in vitro culture (in vitro matured; IVM).
Although IVM and IVO oocytes are equivalent in appearance at the MII stage, it
remains unclear whether there are differences in their properties. Therefore, we 
investigated their in vitro fertilization and developmental capacities and
cytoskeletal statuses. Our findings revealed that the IVM and IVO oocytes had
similar fertilization rates but that no IVO oocytes could develop to the
blastocyst stage. Additionally, IVO oocytes showed abnormal cytoskeletal
formation. It is concluded that IVM oocytes maintain normal function, whereas IVO
oocytes would be affected by aging and other factors when they remain for a long 
time in the ovary.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2017.10.023 
PMID: 29096269  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

