

796. Nature. 2017 Oct 19;550(7676):411-414. doi: 10.1038/nature24055. Epub 2017 Oct
11.

Cryo-electron microscopy structure of the lysosomal calcium-permeable channel
TRPML3.

Hirschi M(1), Herzik MA Jr(2), Wie J(3), Suo Y(1), Borschel WF(1), Ren D(3),
Lander GC(2), Lee SY(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina 27710, USA.
(2)Department of Integrative Structural and Computational Biology, The Scripps
Research Institute, La Jolla, California 92037, USA.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19104, USA.

The modulation of ion channel activity by lipids is increasingly recognized as a 
fundamental component of cellular signalling. The transient receptor potential
mucolipin (TRPML) channel family belongs to the TRP superfamily and is composed
of three members: TRPML1-TRPML3. TRPMLs are the major Ca2+-permeable channels on 
late endosomes and lysosomes (LEL). They regulate the release of Ca2+ from
organelles, which is important for various physiological processes, including
organelle trafficking and fusion. Loss-of-function mutations in the MCOLN1 gene, 
which encodes TRPML1, cause the neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorder
mucolipidosis type IV, and a gain-of-function mutation (Ala419Pro) in TRPML3
gives rise to the varitint-waddler (Va) mouse phenotype. Notably, TRPML channels 
are activated by the low-abundance and LEL-enriched signalling lipid
phosphatidylinositol-3,5-bisphosphate (PtdIns(3,5)P2), whereas other
phosphoinositides such as PtdIns(4,5)P2, which is enriched in plasma membranes,
inhibit TRPMLs. Conserved basic residues at the N terminus of the channel are
important for activation by PtdIns(3,5)P2 and inhibition by PtdIns(4,5)P2.
However, owing to a lack of structural information, the mechanism by which TRPML 
channels recognize PtdIns(3,5)P2 and increase their Ca2+ conductance remains
unclear. Here we present the cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structure of a
full-length TRPML3 channel from the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) at an
overall resolution of 2.9 Å. Our structure reveals not only the molecular basis
of ion conduction but also the unique architecture of TRPMLs, wherein the voltage
sensor-like domain is linked to the pore via a cytosolic domain that we term the 
mucolipin domain. Combined with functional studies, these data suggest that the
mucolipin domain is responsible for PtdIns(3,5)P2 binding and subsequent channel 
activation, and that it acts as a 'gating pulley' for lipid-dependent TRPML
gating.

DOI: 10.1038/nature24055 
PMCID: PMC5762132
PMID: 29019979  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

