

798. Genome Biol Evol. 2017 Oct 1;9(10):2615-2625. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evx194.

Gene Regulatory Enhancers with Evolutionarily Conserved Activity Are More
Pleiotropic than Those with Species-Specific Activity.

Fish A(1)(2), Chen L(2), Capra JA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University.
(2)Department of Biological Sciences, Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt
University.
(3)Departments of Biomedical Informatics and Computer Science, Center for
Structural Biology, Vanderbilt University.

Studies of regulatory activity and gene expression have revealed an intriguing
dichotomy: There is substantial turnover in the regulatory activity of
orthologous sequences between species; however, the expression level of
orthologous genes is largely conserved. Understanding how distal regulatory
elements, for example, enhancers, evolve and function is critical, as alterations
in gene expression levels can drive the development of both complex disease and
functional divergence between species. In this study, we investigated
determinants of the conservation of regulatory enhancer activity for orthologous 
sequences across mammalian evolution. Using liver enhancers identified from
genome-wide histone modification profiles in ten diverse mammalian species, we
compared orthologous sequences that exhibited regulatory activity in all species 
(conserved-activity enhancers) to shared sequences active only in a single
species (species-specific-activity enhancers). Conserved-activity enhancers have 
greater regulatory potential than species-specific-activity enhancers, as
quantified by both the density and diversity of transcription factor binding
motifs. Consistent with their greater regulatory potential, conserved-activity
enhancers have greater regulatory activity in humans than
species-specific-activity enhancers: They are active across more cellular
contexts, and they regulate more genes than species-specific-activity enhancers. 
Furthermore, the genes regulated by conserved-activity enhancers are expressed in
more tissues and are less tolerant of loss-of-function mutations than those
targeted by species-specific-activity enhancers. These consistent results across 
various stages of gene regulation demonstrate that conserved-activity enhancers
are more pleiotropic than their species-specific-activity counterparts. This
suggests that pleiotropy is associated with the conservation of regulatory across
mammalian evolution.

Â© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evx194 
PMCID: PMC5737616
PMID: 28985297  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

