

80. Eur J Pharmacol. 2021 Nov 5;910:174452. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2021.174452. Epub
2021 Sep 1.

Effect of the glycine transporter 1 inhibitor ALX-5407 on dyskinesia,
psychosis-like behaviours and parkinsonism in the MPTP-lesioned marmoset.

Frouni I(1), Belliveau S(2), Maddaford S(3), Nuara SG(4), Gourdon JC(4), Huot
P(5).

Author information: 
(1)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie,
Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(2)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Talon Pharmaceuticals, Mississauga, ON, Canada.
(4)Comparative Medicine & Animal Resource Centre, McGill University, Montreal,
QC, Canada.
(5)Neurodegenerative Disease Group, Montreal Neurological Institute-Hospital (The
Neuro), Montreal, QC, Canada; Département de Pharmacologie et Physiologie,
Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Neurology and
Neurosurgery, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada; Movement Disorder Clinic, 
Division of Neurology, Department of Neuroscience, McGill University Health
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. Electronic address: philippe.huot@mcgill.ca.

Dyskinesia and psychosis are complications encountered in advanced Parkinson's
disease (PD) following long-term therapy with L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine
(L-DOPA). Disturbances in the glutamatergic system have been associated with both
dyskinesia and psychosis, making glutamatergic modulation a potential therapeutic
approach for these. Treatments thus far have sought to dampen glutamatergic
transmission, for example through blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)
receptors or modulation of metabotropic glutamate receptors 5. In contrast,
activation of the glycine-binding site on NMDA receptors is required for their
physiological response. Here, we investigated whether indirectly enhancing
glutamatergic transmission through inhibition of glycine re-uptake would be
efficacious in diminishing both dyskinesia and psychosis-like behaviours (PLBs)
in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned common
marmoset. Six marmosets were rendered parkinsonian by MPTP injection. Following
repeated administration of L-DOPA to induce dyskinesia and PLBs, they underwent
acute challenges of the glycine transporter 1 (GlyT1) inhibitor ALX-5407 (0.01,
0.1 and 1 mg/kg) or vehicle, in combination with L-DOPA, after which the severity
of dyskinesia, PLBs and parkinsonian disability was evaluated. In combination
with L-DOPA, ALX-5407 0.1 and 1 mg/kg significantly reduced the severity of
dyskinesia, by 51% and 41% (both P < 0.001), when compared to vehicle. ALX-5407
0.01, 0.1 and 1 mg/kg also decreased the severity of global PLBs, by 25%, 51% and
38% (all P < 0.001), when compared to vehicle. The benefits on dyskinesia and
PLBs were achieved without compromising the therapeutic effect of L-DOPA on
parkinsonism. Our results suggest that GlyT1 inhibition may be a novel strategy
to attenuate dyskinesia and PLBs in PD, without interfering with L-DOPA
anti-parkinsonian action.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2021.174452 
PMID: 34480885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

