

801. Nature. 2017 Oct 12;550(7675):275-279. doi: 10.1038/nature24034. Epub 2017 Oct 4.

A viral Sm-class RNA base-pairs with mRNAs and recruits microRNAs to inhibit
apoptosis.

Gorbea C(1), Mosbruger T(2), Cazalla D(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake
City, Utah 84112-5650, USA.
(2)Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake
City, Utah 84112-5650, USA.

Viruses express several classes of non-coding RNAs; the functions and mechanisms 
by which most of these act are unknown. Herpesvirus saimiri, a Î³-herpesvirus that
establishes latency in the T cells of New World primates and has the ability to
cause aggressive leukaemias and lymphomas in non-natural hosts, expresses seven
small nuclear uracil-rich non-coding RNAs (called HSURs) in latently infected
cells. These HSURs associate with Sm proteins, and share biogenesis and
structural features with cellular Sm-class small nuclear RNAs. One of these HSURs
(HSUR2) base-pairs with two host cellular microRNAs (miR-142-3p and miR-16) but
does not affect their abundance or activity, which suggests that its interactions
with them perform alternative functions. Here we show that HSUR2 also base-pairs 
with mRNAs in infected cells. We combined in vivo psoralen-mediated RNA-RNA
crosslinking and high-throughput sequencing to identify the mRNAs targeted by
HSUR2, which include mRNAs that encode retinoblastoma and factors involved in p53
signalling and apoptosis. We show that HSUR2 represses the expression of target
mRNAs and that base-pairing between HSUR2 and miR-142-3p and miR-16 is essential 
for this repression, suggesting that HSUR2 recruits these two cellular microRNAs 
to its target mRNAs. Furthermore, we show that HSUR2 uses this mechanism to
inhibit apoptosis. Our results uncover a role for this viral Sm-class RNA as a
microRNA adaptor in the regulation of gene expression that follows precursor mRNA
processing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature24034 
PMCID: PMC5864290
PMID: 28976967  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

