

803. Front Neurosci. 2017 Sep 15;11:514. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2017.00514. eCollection
2017.

A Chronically Implantable Bidirectional Neural Interface for Non-human Primates.

Komatsu M(1), Sugano E(2), Tomita H(2), Fujii N(3).

Author information: 
(1)Ichinohe Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Function,
RIKEN Brain Science InstituteSaitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Biological Sciences, Iwate UniversityIwate, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Adaptive Intelligence, RIKEN Brain Science InstituteSaitama,
Japan.

Optogenetics has potential applications in the study of epilepsy and
neuroprostheses, and for studies on neural circuit dynamics. However, to achieve 
translation to clinical usage, optogenetic interfaces that are capable of chronic
stimulation and monitoring with minimal brain trauma are required. We aimed to
develop a chronically implantable device for photostimulation of the brain of
non-human primates. We used a micro-light-emitting diode (LED) array with a
flexible polyimide film. The array was combined with a whole-cortex
electrocorticographic (ECoG) electrode array for simultaneous photostimulation
and recording. Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) was virally transduced into the cerebral
cortex of common marmosets, and then the device was epidurally implanted into
their brains. We recorded the neural activity during photostimulation of the
awake monkeys for 4 months. The neural responses gradually increased after the
virus injection for ~8 weeks and remained constant for another 8 weeks. The
micro-LED and ECoG arrays allowed semi-invasive simultaneous stimulation and
recording during long-term implantation in the brains of non-human primates. The 
development of this device represents substantial progress in the field of
optogenetic applications.

DOI: 10.3389/fnins.2017.00514 
PMCID: PMC5605616
PMID: 28966573 

