

805. Neuroscience. 2017 Nov 19;364:143-156. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2017.09.021.
Epub 2017 Sep 20.

Developmental trajectories of macroanatomical structures in common marmoset
brain.

Seki F(1), Hikishima K(2), Komaki Y(3), Hata J(1), Uematsu A(1), Okahara N(4),
Yamamoto M(4), Shinohara H(4), Sasaki E(3), Okano H(5).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan; Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Brain Science Institute
RIKEN, Wako, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan; Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University, Okinawa, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki,
Japan.
(4)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, Kawasaki, Japan.
(5)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, Shinjuku-ku,
Tokyo 160-8582, Japan; Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, Brain Science
Institute RIKEN, Wako, Japan. Electronic address: hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

Morphometry studies of human brain development have revealed characteristics of
some growth patterns, such as gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM), but the
features that make human neurodevelopment distinct from that in other species
remain unclear. Studies of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New 
World primate, can provide insights into unique features such as cooperative
behaviors complementary to those from comparative analyses using mouse and rhesus
monkey. In the present study, we analyzed developmental patterns of GM, WM, and
cortical regions with volume measurements using longitudinal sample (23
marmosets; 11 male, 12 female) between the ages of one and 30months. Regional
analysis using a total of 164 magnetic resonance imaging datasets revealed that
GM volume increased before puberty (5.4months), but subsequently declined until
adulthood, whereas WM volume increased rapidly before stabilizing around puberty 
(9.9months). Cortical regions showed similar patterns of increase and decrease,
patterns with global GM but differed in the timing of volume peak and degree of
decline across regions. The progressive-regressive pattern detected in both
global and cortical GM was well correlated to phases of synaptogenesis and
synaptic pruning reported in previous marmoset studies. A rapid increase in WM in
early development may represent a distinctive aspect of human neurodevelopment.
These findings suggest that studies of marmoset brain development can provide
valuable comparative information that will facilitate a deeper understanding of
human brain growth and neurodevelopmental disorders.

Copyright Â© 2017 IBRO. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2017.09.021 
PMID: 28939259  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

