

806. Neuroimage. 2017 Dec;163:55-67. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.09.028. Epub 2017 
Sep 18.

Mapping orbitofrontal-limbic maturation in non-human primates: A longitudinal
magnetic resonance imaging study.

Uematsu A(1), Hata J(1), Komaki Y(2), Seki F(1), Yamada C(3), Okahara N(3),
Kurotaki Y(3), Sasaki E(1), Okano H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan; RIKEN BSI Laboratory for Marmoset Neural
Architecture, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan; Central Institute for
Experimental Animals, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku, Kawasaki, 210-0821, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan; RIKEN BSI Laboratory for Marmoset Neural
Architecture, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan.
(3)Central Institute for Experimental Animals, 3-25-12 Tonomachi, Kawasaki-ku,
Kawasaki, 210-0821, Japan.
(4)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi,
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-8582, Japan; RIKEN BSI Laboratory for Marmoset Neural
Architecture, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, Saitama, 351-0198, Japan. Electronic address:
hidokano@a2.keio.jp.

Brain development involves spatiotemporally complex microstructural changes. A
number of neuropsychiatric disorders are linked to the neural processes of
development and aging. Thus, it is important to understanding the typical
developmental patterns of various brain structures, which will help to define
critical periods of vulnerability for neural maturation, as well as anatomical
mechanisms of brain structure-related neuropathology. In this study, we used
magnetic resonance imaging to assess development of the orbitofrontal cortex,
cingulate cortex, amygdala, and hippocampus in a non-human primate species, the
common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus). We collected a total of 114 T2-weighted and
91 diffusion-weighted scans from 23 animals from infancy to early adulthood.
Quantitative and qualitative evaluation of age-related brain growth patterns
showed non-linear structural developmental changes in all measured brain regions,
consistent with reported human data. Overall, robust volumetric growth was
observed from 1 to 3 months of age (from infancy to the early juvenile period).
This rapid brain growth was associated with the largest decrease in mean, axial, 
and radial diffusivities of diffusion tensor imaging in all brain regions,
suggesting an increase in the number and size of cells, dendrites, and spines
during this period. After this developmental period, the volume of various brain 
regions steadily increased until adolescence (7-13 months of age, depending on
the region). Further, structural connectivity derived from tractography data in
various brain regions continuously changed from infancy to adolescence,
suggesting that the increase in brain volume was related to continued axonal
myelination during adolescence. Thereafter, the volume of the cortical regions
decreased considerably, while there was no change in subcortical regions.
Familial factors, rather than sex, contributed the development of the
front-limbic brain regions. Overall, this study provides further data on the
factors and timing important for normal brain development, and suggest that the
common marmoset is a useful animal model for human neural development.

Copyright Â© 2017. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.09.028 
PMID: 28923274  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

