

807. Infect Genet Evol. 2018 Sep;63:410-419. doi: 10.1016/j.meegid.2017.09.009. Epub
2017 Sep 15.

Accurate identification of Anopheles gambiae Giles trophic preferences by
MALDI-TOF MS.

Niare S(1), Tandina F(1), Davoust B(2), Doumbo O(3), Raoult D(2), Parola P(4),
Almeras L(5).

Author information: 
(1)Aix Marseille Université, Unité de Recherche en Maladies Infectieuses et
Tropicales Emergentes (URMITE), UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198 (Dakar, Sénégal), Inserm
1095, Faculté de Médecine, 27 bd Jean Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 5, France;
Malaria Research and Training Center, DEAP/FMOS, UMI 3189, University of Science,
Techniques and Technology, Bamako, Mali.
(2)Aix Marseille Université, Unité de Recherche en Maladies Infectieuses et
Tropicales Emergentes (URMITE), UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198 (Dakar, Sénégal), Inserm
1095, Faculté de Médecine, 27 bd Jean Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 5, France.
(3)Malaria Research and Training Center, DEAP/FMOS, UMI 3189, University of
Science, Techniques and Technology, Bamako, Mali.
(4)Aix Marseille Université, Unité de Recherche en Maladies Infectieuses et
Tropicales Emergentes (URMITE), UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198 (Dakar, Sénégal), Inserm
1095, Faculté de Médecine, 27 bd Jean Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 5, France.
Electronic address: philippe.parola@univ-amu.fr.
(5)Aix Marseille Université, Unité de Recherche en Maladies Infectieuses et
Tropicales Emergentes (URMITE), UM63, CNRS 7278, IRD 198 (Dakar, Sénégal), Inserm
1095, Faculté de Médecine, 27 bd Jean Moulin, 13385 Marseille cedex 5, France;
Unité de Parasitologie et Entomologie, Département des Maladies Infectieuses,
Institut de Recherche Biomédicale des Armées, Marseille, France.

The determination of the trophic preferences of the Anopheles gambiae Giles
(Diptera: Culicidae) is a decisive parameter for the monitoring and the
prevention of malaria risk transmission. Currently, arthropod blood feeding
sources are identified using immunological or molecular biology traditional
techniques. Despite the effectiveness of these methods, they present several
limitations, and notably, they are time-consuming and costly techniques. A recent
study demonstrated that MALDI-TOF MS could be a useful tool for the
identification of blood meal origins in freshly engorged mosquitoes. However, the
limited number of blood vertebrate species tested to date, did not allow an
assessment of the efficiency of MALDI-TOF MS in distinguishing blood MS spectra
among close host species, such as humans versus primates. Therefore, in the
present study, blood from ten distinct vertebrate host species, including four
domestic species, four wild species, and two primates, was selected to control
the reliability of MALDI-TOF MS based identification. Host blood species-specific
MS profiles, up to 24h post-feeding in engorged Anopheles abdomens, were
confirmed. Blind tests underlined the high specificity of MS spectra for the
recognition of each host species, preventing misidentification. Nevertheless, an 
accurate analysis of the results from MS spectra queried against the MS database 
revealed that the reliability of identification is directly linked to the
comprehensiveness of the MS reference database. Finally, the rapidity, the
low-cost reagents, the simplicity of data analysis, and the accuracy of the tool 
for blood origin determination, make this proteomic strategy a promising
complementary method for the elucidation of host/vector interactions.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.meegid.2017.09.009 
PMID: 28919552  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

