

811. J Comp Neurol. 2017 Dec 15;525(18):3962-3974. doi: 10.1002/cne.24319. Epub 2017
Sep 18.

Thorny ganglion cells in marmoset retina: Morphological and neurochemical
characterization with antibodies against calretinin.

Chandra AJ(1)(2), Lee SCS(1)(2), Grünert U(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Clinical Ophthalmology, Save Sight Institute, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000, Australia.
(2)Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain
Function, Sydney Node, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000,
Australia.
(3)Discipline of Anatomy & Histology, School of Medical Sciences, The University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 2000, Australia.

In primates, over 17 morphological types of retinal ganglion cell have been
distinguished by their dendritic morphology and stratification, but reliable
markers for specific ganglion cell populations are still rare. The calcium
binding protein calretinin is known to be expressed in the inner nuclear and the 
ganglion cell layer of marmoset retina, however, the specific cell type(s)
expressing calretinin in the ganglion cell layer are yet to be determined. Here, 
we identified calretinin positive retinal ganglion cells in the common marmoset
Callithrix jacchus. Double labeling with the ganglion cell marker RBPMS
demonstrated that the large majority (80%) of the calretinin positive cells in
the ganglion cell layer are ganglion cells, and 20% are displaced amacrine cells.
The calretinin positive ganglion cells made up on average 12% of the total
ganglion cell population outside of the foveal region and their proportion
increased with eccentricity. Prelabeling with antibodies against calretinin and
subsequent intracellular injection with DiI revealed that the large majority of
the injected cells (n = 74) were either narrow thorny or broad thorny ganglion
cells, 14 cells were displaced amacrine cells. Narrow thorny cells were further
distinguished into outer and inner stratifying cells. In addition, weakly labeled
cells with a large soma were identified as parasol ganglion cells. Our results
show that three types of thorny ganglion cells in marmoset retina can be
identified with antibodies against calretinin. Our findings are also consistent
with the idea that the proportion of wide-field ganglion cell types increases in 
peripheral retina.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.24319 
PMID: 28875500  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

