

813. Genome Res. 2017 Oct;27(10):1623-1633. doi: 10.1101/gr.218149.116. Epub 2017 Aug 
30.

Transposable elements are the primary source of novelty in primate gene
regulation.

Trizzino M(1)(2), Park Y(1)(2), Holsbach-Beltrame M(1), Aracena K(1), Mika K(3), 
Caliskan M(1)(2), Perry GH(4), Lynch VJ(3), Brown CD(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Genetics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(2)Institute for Biomedical Informatics, University of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.
(3)Department of Human Genetics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, 
USA.
(4)Departments of Anthropology and Biology, Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, Pennsylvania 16802, USA.

Gene regulation shapes the evolution of phenotypic diversity. We investigated the
evolution of liver promoters and enhancers in six primate species using ChIP-seq 
(H3K27ac and H3K4me1) to profile cis-regulatory elements (CREs) and using RNA-seq
to characterize gene expression in the same individuals. To quantify regulatory
divergence, we compared CRE activity across species by testing differential
ChIP-seq read depths directly measured for orthologous sequences. We show that
the primate regulatory landscape is largely conserved across the lineage, with
63% of the tested human liver CREs showing similar activity across species.
Conserved CRE function is associated with sequence conservation, proximity to
coding genes, cell-type specificity, and transcription factor binding. Newly
evolved CREs are enriched in immune response and neurodevelopmental functions. We
further demonstrate that conserved CREs bind master regulators, suggesting that
while CREs contribute to species adaptation to the environment, core functions
remain intact. Newly evolved CREs are enriched in young transposable elements
(TEs), including Long-Terminal-Repeats (LTRs) and SINE-VNTR-Alus (SVAs), that
significantly affect gene expression. Conversely, only 16% of conserved CREs
overlap TEs. We tested the cis-regulatory activity of 69 TE subfamilies by
luciferase reporter assays, spanning all major TE classes, and showed that 95.6% 
of tested TEs can function as either transcriptional activators or repressors. In
conclusion, we demonstrated the critical role of TEs in primate gene regulation
and illustrated potential mechanisms underlying evolutionary divergence among the
primate species through the noncoding genome.

Â© 2017 Trizzino et al.; Published by Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press.

DOI: 10.1101/gr.218149.116 
PMCID: PMC5630026
PMID: 28855262  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

