

816. Hum Brain Mapp. 2017 Nov;38(11):5756-5777. doi: 10.1002/hbm.23766. Epub 2017 Aug 
28.

Analysis of vascular homogeneity and anisotropy on high-resolution primate brain 
imaging.

Kennel P(1), Fonta C(2), Guibert R(1), Plouraboué F(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institut de Mécanique des Fluides de Toulouse (IMFT), Université de Toulouse, 
CNRS, INPT, UPS, Toulouse, France.
(2)Brain and Cognition Research Center (CerCo), CNRS-University of Toulouse UPS, 
F-31052 Toulouse Cedex, France.

Using a systematic investigation of brain blood volume, in high-resolution
synchrotron 3D images of microvascular structures within cortical regions of a
primate brain, we challenge several basic questions regarding possible vascular
bias in high-resolution functional neuroimaging. We present a bilateral
comparison of cortical regions, where we analyze relative vascular volume in
voxels from 150 to 1000 μm side lengths in the white and grey matter. We show
that, if voxel size reaches a scale smaller than 300 µm, the vascular volume can 
no longer be considered homogeneous, either within one hemisphere or in bilateral
comparison between samples. We demonstrate that voxel size influences the
comparison between vessel-relative volume distributions depending on the scale
considered (i.e., hemisphere, lobe, or sample). Furthermore, we also investigate 
how voxel anisotropy and orientation can affect the apparent vascular volume, in 
accordance with actual fMRI voxel sizes. These findings are discussed from the
various perspectives of high-resolution brain functional imaging. Hum Brain Mapp 
38:5756-5777, 2017. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hbm.23766 
PMCID: PMC6866716
PMID: 28845885  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

