

820. Neuroimage. 2017 Nov 15;162:86-92. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.08.052. Epub
2017 Aug 19.

Functional magnetic resonance imaging of auditory cortical fields in awake
marmosets.

Toarmino CR(1), Yen CCC(2), Papoti D(2), Bock NA(3), Leopold DA(4), Miller CT(1),
Silva AC(5).

Author information: 
(1)Cortical Systems and Behavior Laboratory, Department of Psychology and
Neurosciences Graduate Program, The University of California at San Diego, La
Jolla, CA, 92093-0109, USA.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Bethesda, MD,
20892-4478, USA.
(3)Department of Psychology, Neuroscience and Behaviour, McMaster University,
Hamilton, Ontario, L8S 4K1, Canada.
(4)Section on Cognitive Neurophysiology and Imaging, Laboratory of
Neuropsychology, National Institute of Mental Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892-4400,
USA.
(5)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, Bethesda, MD,
20892-4478, USA. Electronic address: SilvaA@ninds.nih.gov.

The primate auditory cortex is organized into a network of anatomically and
functionally distinct processing fields. Because of its tonotopic properties, the
auditory core has been the main target of neurophysiological studies ranging from
sensory encoding to perceptual decision-making. By comparison, the auditory belt 
has been less extensively studied, in part due to the fact that neurons in the
belt areas prefer more complex stimuli and integrate over a wider frequency range
than neurons in the core, which prefer pure tones of a single frequency.
Complementary approaches, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI),
allow the anatomical identification of both the auditory core and belt and
facilitate their functional characterization by rapidly testing a range of
stimuli across multiple brain areas simultaneously that can be used to guide
subsequent neural recordings. Bridging these technologies in primates will serve 
to further expand our understanding of primate audition. Here, we developed a
novel preparation to test whether different areas of the auditory cortex could be
identified using fMRI in common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), a powerful model 
of the primate auditory system. We used two types of stimulation, band pass noise
and pure tones, to parse apart the auditory core from surrounding secondary belt 
fields. In contrast to most auditory fMRI experiments in primates, we employed a 
continuous sampling paradigm to rapidly collect data with little deleterious
effects. Here we found robust bilateral auditory cortex activation in two
marmosets and unilateral activation in a third utilizing this preparation.
Furthermore, we confirmed results previously reported in electrophysiology
experiments, such as the tonotopic organization of the auditory core and regions 
activating preferentially to complex over simple stimuli. Overall, these data
establish a key preparation for future research to investigate various functional
properties of marmoset auditory cortex.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.08.052 
PMCID: PMC5705576
PMID: 28830766  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

