

823. J Neurosci Methods. 2017 Nov 1;291:51-60. doi: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.08.006.
Epub 2017 Aug 9.

Novel method of extracting motion from natural movies.

Suzuki W(1), Ichinohe N(2), Tani T(2), Hayami T(3), Miyakawa N(2), Watanabe S(3),
Takeichi H(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan; Ichinohe
Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan. Electronic address:
watarus@ncnp.go.jp.
(2)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan; Ichinohe
Neural System Group, Laboratory for Molecular Analysis of Higher Brain Functions,
RIKEN Brain Science Institute, RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan.
(3)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience,
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Kodaira, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Computational Engineering Applications Unit, Advanced Center for Computing and
Communication (ACCC), RIKEN, Wako, Saitama, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The visual system in primates can be segregated into motion and shape
pathways. Interaction occurs at multiple stages along these pathways. Processing 
of shape-from-motion and biological motion is considered to be a higher-order
integration process involving motion and shape information. However, relatively
limited types of stimuli have been used in previous studies on these integration 
processes.
NEW METHOD: We propose a new algorithm to extract object motion information from 
natural movies and to move random dots in accordance with the information. The
object motion information is extracted by estimating the dynamics of local normal
vectors of the image intensity projected onto the x-y plane of the movie.
RESULTS: An electrophysiological experiment on two adult common marmoset monkeys 
(Callithrix jacchus) showed that the natural and random dot movies generated with
this new algorithm yielded comparable neural responses in the middle temporal
visual area.
COMPARISON WITH EXISTING METHODS: In principle, this algorithm provided random
dot motion stimuli containing shape information for arbitrary natural movies.
This new method is expected to expand the neurophysiological and psychophysical
experimental protocols to elucidate the integration processing of motion and
shape information in biological systems.
CONCLUSIONS: The novel algorithm proposed here was effective in extracting object
motion information from natural movies and provided new motion stimuli to
investigate higher-order motion information processing.

Copyright Â© 2017 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2017.08.006 
PMID: 28802702  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

