

825. Biochem Pharmacol. 2017 Nov 15;144:149-161. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.08.004. Epub 
2017 Aug 9.

Insight into the mode of action and selectivity of PBRM, a covalent steroidal
inhibitor of 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1.

Trottier A(1), Maltais R(1), Ayan D(1), Barbeau X(2), Roy J(1), Perreault M(1),
Poulin R(1), Lagüe P(3), Poirier D(4).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry, Endocrinology and Nephrology Unit, CHU de
Québec - Research Center (CHUL, T4), Québec, QC, Canada.
(2)Département de Chimie, Institut de Biologie Intégrative et Des Systèmes
(IBIS), and Centre de Recherche sur la Fonction, la Structure et l'Ingénierie des
Protéines (PROTEO), Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada.
(3)Département de Biochimie Microbiologie et Bio-informatique, Institut de
Biologie Intégrative et des Systèmes (IBIS), and Centre de Recherche sur la
Fonction, la Structure et l'Ingénierie des Protéines (PROTEO), Université Laval, 
Québec, QC, Canada.
(4)Laboratory of Medicinal Chemistry, Endocrinology and Nephrology Unit, CHU de
Québec - Research Center (CHUL, T4), Québec, QC, Canada; Department of Molecular 
Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada. Electronic
address: donald.poirier@crchul.ulaval.ca.

17β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (17β-HSD1) is involved in the
biosynthesis of estradiol, the major bioactive endogenous estrogen in mammals,
and constitutes an interesting therapeutic target for estrogen-dependent
diseases. A steroidal derivative,
3-{[(16β,17β)-3-(2-bromoethyl)-17-hydroxyestra-1,3,5(10)-trien-16-yl]methyl}
benzamide (PBRM), has recently been described as a non-estrogenic, irreversible
inhibitor of 17β-HSD1. However, the mode of action of this inhibitor and its
selectivity profile have not yet been elucidated. We assessed PBRM potency via in
vitro kinetic measurements. The mechanism of enzyme inactivation was also
investigated using interspecies (human, mouse, pig and monkey) comparisons via
both in vitro assays and in silico analysis. Mouse and human plasma protein
binding of PBRM was determined, whereas its selectivity of action was studied
using a wide range of potential off-targets (e.g. GPCR, hERG, CYPs, etc.). The
affinity constant (Ki=368nM) and the enzyme inactivation rate (kinact=0.087min-1)
values for PBRM were determined with purified 17β-HSD1. PBRM was found to be
covalently linked to the enzyme. A long delay period (i.e. 3-5days) is required
to recover 17β-HSD1 activity following a pretreatment of breast and placenta cell
lines with PBRM. Mechanistic analyses showed important interspecies differences
of 17β-HSD1 inhibition which support the importance of inactivation for PBRM
effect. Evidences of the potency and selectivity of action presented herein for
this first non-estrogenic and steroidal covalent irreversible inhibitor of
17β-HSD1 warrant its further development as a potential drug candidate for
estrogen-dependent disorders.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2017.08.004 
PMID: 28800957  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

