

827. PLoS One. 2017 Aug 10;12(8):e0182905. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182905.
eCollection 2017.

Identification of Plasmodium spp. in Neotropical primates of Maranhense Amazon in
Northeast Brazil.

Figueiredo MAP(1), Di Santi SM(2), Manrique WG(3), André MR(1), Machado RZ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Immunoparasitology, School of Agrarian and Veterinary Sciences
(FCAV), UNESP, Jaboticabal Campus, Jaboticabal, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Center for Malaria Studies, Superintendency for Endemic Disease Control
(SUCEN), Department of Health of the State of São Paulo/ Institute of Tropical
Medicine of Sao Paulo (IMTSP), USP, Sao Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Laboratory of Veterinary Pathology, Brazil University, Descalvado Campus,
Descalvado, São Paulo, Brazil.

In the Brazilian Amazon region, malaria caused by Plasmodium malariae is
considered to be a zoonosis because of cross-transfer of the parasite between
humans and Neotropical primates. To contribute information on this issue, we
investigated occurrences of natural infection with Plasmodium sp. among
Neotropical primates in the Maranhense Amazon (Amazon region of the state of
Maranhão), in the northeastern region of Brazil. Blood samples were collected
from 161 Neotropical primates of six species that were caught in an environmental
reserve (Sítio Aguahy) and from captive primates (CETAS-Wildlife Screening
Center, municipality of São Luís), in Maranhão. Plasmodium sp. was diagnosed
based on light microscopy, PCR, qPCR and LAMP for amplification of the 18S rRNA
gene. Serum samples were also assayed by means of indirect immunofluorescence for
IgG antibodies against P. malariae/P. brasilianum, P. falciparum and P. berghei. 
Parasites were detected through light microscopy on five slides from captive
primates (four Sapajus spp. and one Callithrix jacchus). In the molecular tests, 
34.16% (55/161) and 29.81% (48/161) of the animals sampled were positive in the
qPCR and PCR assays, respectively. In the PCR, 47/48 animals were positive for P.
malariae/P. brasilianum; of these, eight were free-living primates and 39 from
CETAS, São Luís. One sample showed a band in the genus-specific reaction, but not
in the second PCR reaction. Anti-P. malariae/P. brasilianum IgG antibodies were
detected in four serum samples from Sapajus spp. in captivity. In this study,
circulation of P. malariae/P. brasilianum in Neotropical primates was confirmed, 
with low levels of parasitemia and low levels of antibodies. The importance of
these animals as reservoirs of human malaria in the region studied is still
unknown. This scenario has an impact on control and elimination of malaria in
this region.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0182905 
PMCID: PMC5552124
PMID: 28796820  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

