

831. Behav Brain Res. 2018 Oct 15;352:151-160. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2017.07.042. Epub
2017 Jul 29.

Assessment of behavioural deficits following ischaemic stroke in the marmoset.

Le Gal R(1), Bernaudin M(1), Toutain J(1), Touzani O(2).

Author information: 
(1)Normandie-Univ, UNICAEN, CEA, CNRS, ISTCT/CERVOxy Group, Caen, France.
(2)Normandie-Univ, UNICAEN, CEA, CNRS, ISTCT/CERVOxy Group, Caen, France.
Electronic address: touzani@cyceron.fr.

Stroke is a common and devastating disease worldwide. Over the last two decades, 
many therapeutic approaches to ameliorate ischaemic stroke have been promising in
animal studies but failed when transferred to the clinical situation. One of the 
possible explanations for these failures is the widespread use of animal models
of cerebral ischemia that do not mimic the pathology encountered in the clinic.
Accordingly, many expert committees recommended the integration of higher order
species such as non-human primates in pre-clinical stroke studies. The common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a small New World monkey, start to stand out in
the neuroscience field as a good compromise between larger primates and rodents. 
In this review, we discuss the relevance of the use of the marmoset in stroke
studies. We will focus on behavioural tests developed in this species to assess
sensorimotor deficits and their recovery during acute and chronic stages of brain
ischaemia. The aim of this appraisal is to provide a comprehensive overview of
the existing approaches to induce stroke in the marmoset as well as the paradigms
for behavioural testing in this species. The data summarized in this review
should contribute to the improvement of future stoke studies in the marmoset and 
accordingly improve the translation of the results from bench to bed.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2017.07.042 
PMID: 28760698  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

