

833. Gene. 2017 Sep 30;630:21-27. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.07.047. Epub 2017 Jul 26.

Identification and characterization of the tyrosinase gene (TYR) and its
transcript variants (TYR_1 and TYR_2) in the crab-eating macaque (Macaca
fascicularis).

Kim YH(1), Park SJ(2), Choe SH(1), Lee JR(2), Cho HM(1), Kim SU(1), Kim JS(1),
Sim BW(2), Song BS(2), Lee Y(1), Jin YB(2), Hong JJ(2), Jeong KJ(2), Kang P(2),
Baek SH(2), Lee SR(1), Huh JW(3), Chang KT(4).

Author information: 
(1)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Cheongju 28116, Republic of Korea; Futuristic Animal Resource &
Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology,
Cheongju 28116, Republic of Korea; Department of Functional Genomics, KRIBB
School of Bioscience, Korea University of Science and Technology (UST), Daejeon
34113, Republic of Korea.
(2)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Cheongju 28116, Republic of Korea; Futuristic Animal Resource &
Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology,
Cheongju 28116, Republic of Korea.
(3)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Cheongju 28116, Republic of Korea; Futuristic Animal Resource &
Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology,
Cheongju 28116, Republic of Korea; Department of Functional Genomics, KRIBB
School of Bioscience, Korea University of Science and Technology (UST), Daejeon
34113, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: huhjw@kribb.re.kr.
(4)National Primate Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and
Biotechnology, Cheongju 28116, Republic of Korea; Futuristic Animal Resource &
Research Center, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology,
Cheongju 28116, Republic of Korea; Department of Functional Genomics, KRIBB
School of Bioscience, Korea University of Science and Technology (UST), Daejeon
34113, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: changkt@kribb.re.kr.

Tyrosinase is a copper-containing enzyme that regulates melanin biosynthesis and 
is encoded by the tyrosinase (TYR) gene. Previous studies demonstrated that
mutations in TYR could lead to oculocutaneous albinism type 1 (OCA1) owing to the
failure of melanin formation. Although a previous study found that albinism in
the rhesus monkey was derived from a mutation in TYR, the identification and
characterization of this gene in non-human primates has not been achieved thus
far. Thus, using the rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and internal reverse
transcription PCR (RT-PCR) we identified the full-length sequence of TYR in the
crab-eating macaque, and two different transcript variants (TYR_1 and TYR_2).
While TYR_1 comprised five exons and its coding sequence was highly similar to
that of humans, TYR_2 comprised four exons and was generated by a
third-exon-skipping event. Interestingly, these two transcripts were also present
in the African green monkey (Old World monkey) and the common marmoset (New World
monkey). Deduced amino acid sequence analyses revealed that TYR_2 had a shorter
C-terminal region than TYR_1 owing to the exon-skipping event. Thus, the present 
study is the first to identify and characterize a full-length TYR gene in a
non-human primate, while the further validation of the third-exon-skipping in TYR
indicates that this event is well conserved in the primate lineage. Therefore,
this study provides useful and important information for the study of albinism
using non-human primate models.

Copyright Â© 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.07.047 
PMID: 28756020  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

