

836. Biochim Biophys Acta Mol Basis Dis. 2018 Sep;1864(9 Pt A):2733-2741. doi:
10.1016/j.bbadis.2017.07.008. Epub 2017 Jul 17.

Non-human primates as a model for aging.

Colman RJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, University of Wisconsin School of
Medicine and Public Health, Wisconsin Institutes for Medical Research, 1111
Highland Avenue, Madison, WI 53705, USA; Wisconsin National Primate Research
Center, University of Wisconsin, 1220 Capitol Court, Madison, WI 53715, USA.
Electronic address: rcolman@primate.wisc.edu.

There has been, and continues to be, a dramatic shift in the human population
towards older ages necessitating biomedical research aimed at better
understanding the basic biology of aging and age-related diseases and
facilitating new and improved therapeutic options. As it is not practical to
perform the breadth of this research in humans, animal models are necessary to
recapitulate the complexity of the aging environment. The mouse model is most
frequently chosen for these endeavors, however, they are frequently not the most 
appropriate model. Non-human primates, on the other hand, are more closely
related to humans and recapitulate the human aging process and development of
age-related diseases. Extensive aging research has been performed in the
well-characterized rhesus macaque aging model. More recently, the common
marmoset, a small non-human primate with a shorter lifespan, has been explored as
a potential aging model. This model holds particular promise as an aging disease 
model in part due to the successful creation of transgenic marmosets. Limitations
to the use of non-human primates in aging research exist but can be mitigated
somewhat by the existence of available resources supported by the National
Institutes of Health. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Animal
models of aging - edited by "Houtkooper Riekelt".

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2017.07.008 
PMCID: PMC5772001
PMID: 28729086  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

