

839. Behav Res Methods. 2018 Jun;50(3):1154-1165. doi: 10.3758/s13428-017-0934-2.

A technological framework for running and analyzing animal head turning
experiments.

Oh J(1), Hoeschele M(2), Reber SA(2)(3), Å lipogor V(2), Bugnyar T(2), Fitch
WT(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090,
Vienna, Austria. jinook.oh@univie.ac.at.
(2)Department of Cognitive Biology, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 1090,
Vienna, Austria.
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of Lincoln, Brayford Pool, Lincoln, LN6
7TS, UK.

Head turning experiments are widely used to test the cognition of both human
infants and non-human animal species. Monitoring head turns allows researchers to
non-invasively assess attention to acoustic or visual stimuli. In the majority of
head turning experiments, the head direction analyses have been accomplished
manually, which is extremely labor intensive and can be affected by subjectivity 
or other human errors and limitations. In the current study, we introduce an
open-source computer program for measuring head directions of freely moving
animals including common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus), American
alligators (Alligator mississippiensis), and Mongolian gerbils (Meriones
unguiculatus) to reduce human effort and time in video coding. We also illustrate
an exemplary framework for an animal head turning experiment with common marmoset
monkeys. This framework incorporates computer-aided processes of data
acquisition, preprocessing, and analysis using the aforementioned software and
additional open-source software and hardware.

DOI: 10.3758/s13428-017-0934-2 
PMCID: PMC5990564
PMID: 28710717  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

