

846. Am J Physiol Endocrinol Metab. 2017 Nov 1;313(5):E507-E514. doi:
10.1152/ajpendo.00058.2017. Epub 2017 Jul 5.

Extraovarian gonadotropin negative feedback revealed by aromatase inhibition in
female marmoset monkeys.

Kraynak M(1)(2)(3), Flowers MT(4), Shapiro RA(4), Kapoor A(3), Levine JE(4)(3),
Abbott DH(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Endocrinology and Reproductive Physiology Program, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin; Kraynak@wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison,
Madison, Wisconsin.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison,
Wisconsin; and.

Whereas the ovary produces the majority of estradiol (E2) in mature female
primates, extraovarian sources contribute to E2 synthesis and action, including
the brain E2-regulating hypothalamic gonadotropin-releasing hormone. In
ovary-intact female rodent models, aromatase inhibition (AI) induces a polycystic
ovary syndrome-like hypergonadotropic hyperandrogenism due to absent E2-mediated 
negative feedback. To examine the role of extraovarian E2 on nonhuman primate
gonadotropin regulation, the present study uses letrozole to elicit AI in adult
female marmoset monkeys. Sixteen female marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; >2 yr)
were randomly assigned to ovary-intact or ovariectomy (OVX) conditions and
subsequently placed on a daily oral regimen of either ~200 µl vehicle alone
(ovary-intact Control, n = 3; OVX, n = 3) or 1 mg ⋅ kg-1 ⋅ day-1 letrozole in
vehicle (ovary-intact AI, n = 4; OVX + AI, n = 6). Blood samples were collected
every 10 days, and plasma chorionic gonadotropin (CG) and steroid hormone levels 
were determined by validated radioimmunoassay and liquid chromatography/tandem
mass spectrometry, respectively. Ovary-intact, AI-treated and OVX females
exhibited elevated CG (P < 0.01, P = 0.004, respectively) compared with controls,
and after 30 days, OVX + AI females exhibited a suprahypergonadotropic phenotype 
(P = 0.004) compared with ovary-intact + AI and OVX females. Androstenedione (P =
0.03) and testosterone (P = 0.05) were also elevated in ovary-intact, AI-treated 
females above all other groups. The current study thus confirms in a nonhuman
primate that E2 depletion and diminished negative feedback in ovary-intact
females engage hypergonadotropic hyperandrogenism. Additionally, we demonstrate
that extraovarian estrogens, possibly neuroestrogens, contribute to female
negative feedback regulation of gonadotropin release.

Copyright © 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpendo.00058.2017 
PMCID: PMC5792143
PMID: 28679622  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

