

851. Anat Histol Embryol. 2017 Aug;46(4):365-372. doi: 10.1111/ahe.12278. Epub 2017
Jun 26.

Computed Tomography of the Abdomen in Eight Clinically Normal Common Marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus).

du Plessis WM(1)(2), Groenewald HB(1), Elliott D(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Physiology, Faculty of Veterinary Science,
University of Pretoria, Private bag X04, Onderstepoort, 0110, South Africa.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, Ross University School of Veterinary
Medicine, P.O. Box 334, Basseterre, St. Kitts, West Indies.
(3)Bird and Exotic Animal Hospital, Private bag X04, Onderstepoort, South Africa.

The aim of this study was to provide a detailed anatomical description of the
abdomen in the clinically normal common marmoset by means of computed tomography 
(CT). Eight clinically healthy mature common marmosets ranging from 12 to
48 months and 235 to 365 g bodyweight were anesthetized and pre- and
post-contrast CT examinations were performed using different CT settings in
dorsal recumbency. Abdominal organs were identified and visibility noted.
Diagnostic quality abdominal images could be obtained of the common marmoset
despite its small size using a dual-slice CT scanner. Representative
cross-sectional images were chosen from different animals illustrating the
abdominal CT anatomy of clinically normal common marmosets. Identification or
delineation of abdominal organs greatly improved with i.v. contrast. A modified
high-frequency algorithm with edge enhancement added valuable information for
identification of small structures such as the ureters. The Hounsfield unit (HU) 
of major abdominal organs differed from that of small animals (domestic dogs and 
cats). Due to their size and different anatomy, standard small animal CT
protocols need to be critically assessed and adapted for exotics, such as the
common marmoset. The established normal reference range of HU of major abdominal 
organs and adapted settings for a CT protocol will aid clinical assessment of the
common marmoset.

© 2017 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/ahe.12278 
PMID: 28653415  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

