

853. J Neurophysiol. 2017 Sep 1;118(3):1567-1580. doi: 10.1152/jn.00065.2017. Epub
2017 Jun 21.

Sensitivity of neurons in the middle temporal area of marmoset monkeys to random 
dot motion.

Chaplin TA(1)(2), Allitt BJ(1), Hagan MA(1)(2), Price NSC(1)(2), Rajan R(1)(2),
Rosa MGP(1)(2), Lui LL(3)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of
Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia; and.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University
Node, Victoria, Australia.
(3)Neuroscience Program, Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of
Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia; and
leo.lui@monash.edu.

Neurons in the middle temporal area (MT) of the primate cerebral cortex respond
to moving visual stimuli. The sensitivity of MT neurons to motion signals can be 
characterized by using random-dot stimuli, in which the strength of the motion
signal is manipulated by adding different levels of noise (elements that move in 
random directions). In macaques, this has allowed the calculation of
"neurometric" thresholds. We characterized the responses of MT neurons in
sufentanil/nitrous oxide-anesthetized marmoset monkeys, a species that has
attracted considerable recent interest as an animal model for vision research. We
found that MT neurons show a wide range of neurometric thresholds and that the
responses of the most sensitive neurons could account for the behavioral
performance of macaques and humans. We also investigated factors that contributed
to the wide range of observed thresholds. The difference in firing rate between
responses to motion in the preferred and null directions was the most effective
predictor of neurometric threshold, whereas the direction tuning bandwidth had no
correlation with the threshold. We also showed that it is possible to obtain
reliable estimates of neurometric thresholds using stimuli that were not highly
optimized for each neuron, as is often necessary when recording from large
populations of neurons with different receptive field concurrently, as was the
case in this study. These results demonstrate that marmoset MT shows an essential
physiological similarity to macaque MT and suggest that its neurons are capable
of representing motion signals that allow for comparable motion-in-noise
judgments.NEW & NOTEWORTHY We report the activity of neurons in marmoset MT in
response to random-dot motion stimuli of varying coherence. The information
carried by individual MT neurons was comparable to that of the macaque, and the
maximum firing rates were a strong predictor of sensitivity. Our study provides
key information regarding the neural basis of motion perception in the marmoset, 
a small primate species that is becoming increasingly popular as an experimental 
model.

Copyright Â© 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00065.2017 
PMCID: PMC5596136
PMID: 28637812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

