

854. Stem Cells Dev. 2017 Sep 1;26(17):1225-1235. doi: 10.1089/scd.2017.0069. Epub
2017 Jul 24.

Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell-Derived Dopaminergic Neurons from Adult Common
Marmoset Fibroblasts.

Vermilyea SC(1)(2), Guthrie S(2), Meyer M(2), Smuga-Otto K(2)(3), Braun K(2),
Howden S(3), Thomson JA(2)(3)(4), Zhang SC(5), Emborg ME(1)(2)(6), Golos
TG(2)(7).

Author information: 
(1)1 Neuroscience Training Program, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison,
Wisconsin.
(2)2 Wisconsin National Primate Research Center, University of Wisconsin-Madison 
, Madison, Wisconsin.
(3)3 Morgridge Institute for Research, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison,
Wisconsin.
(4)4 Department of Cell and Regenerative Biology, University of Wisconsin-Madison
, Madison, Wisconsin.
(5)5 Department of Neuroscience, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison,
Wisconsin.
(6)6 Department of Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison,
Wisconsin.
(7)7 Department of Comparative Biosciences and Obstetrics and Gynecology,
University of Wisconsin-Madison , Madison, Wisconsin.

The common marmoset monkey (Callithrix jacchus; Cj) is an advantageous nonhuman
primate species for modeling age-related disorders, including Parkinson's
disease, due to their shorter life span compared to macaques. Cj-derived induced 
pluripotent stem cells (Cj-iPSCs) from somatic cells are needed for in vitro
disease modeling and testing regenerative medicine approaches. Here we report the
development of a novel Cj-iPSC line derived from adult marmoset fibroblasts. The 
Cj-iPSCs showed potent pluripotency properties, including the development of
mesodermal lineages in tumors after injection to immunocompromised mice, as well 
as ectoderm and endoderm lineages after in vitro differentiation regimens,
demonstrating differentiated derivatives of all three embryonic layers. In
addition, expression of key pluripotency genes (ZFP42, PODXL, DNMT3B, C-MYC,
LIN28, KLF4, NANOG, SOX2, and OCT4) was observed. We then tested the neural
differentiation capacity and gene expression profiles of Cj-iPSCs and a marmoset 
embryonic stem cell line (Cj-ESC) after dual-SMAD inhibition. Exposure to
CHIR99021 and sonic hedgehog (SHH) for 12 and 16 days, respectively, patterned
the cells toward a ventralized midbrain dopaminergic phenotype, confirmed by
expression of FOXA2, OTX2, EN-1, and tyrosine hydroxylase. These results
demonstrate that common marmoset stem cells will be able to serve as a platform
for investigating regenerative medicine approaches targeting the dopaminergic
system.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2017.0069 
PMCID: PMC5576272
PMID: 28635509  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

