

855. J Neurosci. 2017 Jul 19;37(29):7008-7022. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0093-17.2017.
Epub 2017 Jun 20.

Representations of Time-Varying Cochlear Implant Stimulation in Auditory Cortex
of Awake Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Johnson LA(1), Della Santina CC(1)(2), Wang X(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering and.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21025.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering and xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Comment in
    J Neurosci. 2018 Jan 10;38(2):260-262.

Electrical stimulation of the auditory periphery organ by cochlear implant (CI)
generates highly synchronized inputs to the auditory system. It has long been
thought such inputs would lead to highly synchronized neural firing along the
ascending auditory pathway. However, neurophysiological studies with hearing
animals have shown that the central auditory system progressively converts
temporal representations of time-varying sounds to firing rate-based
representations. It is not clear whether this coding principle also applies to
highly synchronized CI inputs. Higher-frequency modulations in CI stimulation
have been found to evoke largely transient responses with little sustained firing
in previous studies of the primary auditory cortex (A1) in anesthetized animals. 
Here, we show that, in addition to neurons displaying synchronized firing to CI
stimuli, a large population of A1 neurons in awake marmosets (Callithrix jacchus)
responded to rapid time-varying CI stimulation with discharges that were not
synchronized to CI stimuli, yet reflected changing repetition frequency by
increased firing rate. Marmosets of both sexes were included in this study. By
comparing directly each neuron's responses to time-varying acoustic and CI
signals, we found that individual A1 neurons encode both modalities with similar 
firing patterns (stimulus-synchronized or nonsynchronized). These findings
suggest that A1 neurons use the same basic coding schemes to represent
time-varying acoustic or CI stimulation and provide new insights into mechanisms 
underlying how the brain processes natural sounds via a CI device.SIGNIFICANCE
STATEMENT In modern cochlear implant (CI) processors, the temporal information in
speech or environmental sounds is delivered through modulated electric pulse
trains. How the auditory cortex represents temporally modulated CI stimulation
across multiple time scales has remained largely unclear. In this study, we
compared directly neuronal responses in primary auditory cortex (A1) to
time-varying acoustic and CI signals in awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix
jacchus). We found that A1 neurons encode both modalities using similar coding
schemes, but some important differences were identified. Our results provide
insights into mechanisms underlying how the brain processes sounds via a CI
device and suggest a candidate neural code underlying rate-pitch perception
limitations often observed in CI users.

Copyright Â© 2017 the authors 0270-6474/17/377008-15$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0093-17.2017 
PMCID: PMC5518426
PMID: 28634306  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

