

858. Neurobiol Aging. 2017 Sep;57:95-103. doi: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2017.05.013.
Epub 2017 May 22.

Age-related plasticity of the axon initial segment of cortical pyramidal cells in
marmoset monkeys.

Atapour N(1), Rosa MGP(2).

Author information: 
(1)Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of Physiology, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Australian Research Council, Centre
of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia. Electronic address: nafiseh.atapour@monash.edu.
(2)Biomedicine Discovery Institute and Department of Physiology, Monash
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; Australian Research Council, Centre
of Excellence for Integrative Brain Function, Monash University Node, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.

Structural plasticity of the axon initial segment (AIS), the site of action
potential initiation, is observed as part of the normal early development of the 
cortex, as well as in association with injury and disease. Here, we show that
structural AIS plasticity also occurs with normal aging in adult marmosets.
Immunohistochemical techniques were used to reveal the extent of the AIS of layer
2/3A pyramidal cells in 8 neocortical areas. We found that the AIS length varied 
significantly between areas in young adult (2-3 years old) marmosets, with
neurons in frontal area 14C having the longest AIS, and those in the primary
visual cortex the shortest. Similar interareal differences were observed in aged 
(12-14 year old) monkeys, but the AIS was significantly shortened in many areas, 
relative to the corresponding length in young adults. Shortening of the AIS is
likely to represent a compensatory response to changes in the
excitation-inhibition balance, associated with the loss of GABAergic interneurons
in the aged cortex.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2017.05.013 
PMID: 28624616  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

