

859. J Neurophysiol. 2017 Aug 1;118(2):1344-1354. doi: 10.1152/jn.00259.2017. Epub
2017 Jun 14.

Diffusion-weighted tractography in the common marmoset monkey at 9.4T.

Schaeffer DJ(1), Adam R(2), Gilbert KM(1), Gati JS(1), Li AX(1), Menon RS(1),
Everling S(3).

Author information: 
(1)Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada; and.
(2)Graduate Program in Neuroscience, University of Western Ontario, London,
Ontario, Canada.
(3)Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario,
Canada; and severlin@uwo.ca.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World primate that is
becoming increasingly popular in the neurosciences as an animal model of
preclinical human disease. With several major disorders characterized by
alterations in neural white matter (e.g., multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's
disease, schizophrenia), proposed to be transgenically modeled using marmosets,
the ability to isolate and characterize reliably major white matter fiber tracts 
with MRI will be of use for evaluating structural brain changes related to
disease processes and symptomatology. Here, we propose protocols for isolating
major white matter fiber tracts in the common marmoset using in vivo
ultrahigh-field MRI (9.4T) diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) data. With the use of
a high angular-resolution DWI (256 diffusion-encoding directions) sequence,
collected on four anesthetized marmosets, we provide guidelines for manually
drawing fiber-tracking regions of interest, based on easily identified anatomical
landmarks in DWI native space. These fiber-tract isolation protocols are expected
to be experimentally useful for visualization and quantification of individual
white matter fiber tracts in both control and experimental groups of marmosets
(e.g., transgenic models). As disease models in the marmoset advance, the
determination of how macroscopic white matter anatomy is altered as a function of
disease state will be relevant in bridging the existing translational gap between
preclinical rodent models and human patients.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Although
significant progress has been made in mapping white matter connections in the
marmoset brain using ex vivo tracing techniques, the application of in vivo
virtual dissection of major white matter fiber tracts has been established by few
studies in the marmoset literature. Here, we demonstrate the feasibility of
whole-brain diffusion-weighted tractography in anesthetized marmosets at
ultrahigh-field MRI (9.4T) and propose protocols for isolating nine major white
matter fiber tracts in the marmoset brain.

Copyright Â© 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00259.2017 
PMCID: PMC5558027
PMID: 28615334  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

