

862. Psychoneuroendocrinology. 2017 Sep;83:42-48. doi: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2017.05.009.
Epub 2017 May 10.

An eye tracking system for monitoring face scanning patterns reveals the
enhancing effect of oxytocin on eye contact in common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Shimono K(2), Yoneyama T(3), Nakako T(1), Matsumoto K(1), Ogi Y(1), 
Konoike N(4), Nakamura K(4), Ikeda K(5).

Author information: 
(1)Higher Brain Function Research, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 33-94
Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan.
(2)Molecular Pathophysiology Research, Drug Research Division, Sumitomo Dainippon
Pharma, Co., Ltd., 3-1-98 Kasugadenaka, Konohana-ku, Osaka, 554-0022, Japan.
(3)Omics Group, Genomic Science Laboratories, Drug Research Division, Sumitomo
Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 3-1-98 Kasugadenaka, Konohana-ku, Osaka, 554-0022,
Japan.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University, 41-2
Kanrin, Inuyama, Aichi, 484-8506, Japan.
(5)Higher Brain Function Research, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma, Co., Ltd., 33-94
Enoki-cho, Suita, Osaka, 564-0053, Japan. Electronic address:
kazuhito-ikeda@ds-pharma.co.jp.

Eye tracking systems are used to investigate eyes position and gaze patterns
presumed as eye contact in humans. Eye contact is a useful biomarker of social
communication and known to be deficient in patients with autism spectrum
disorders (ASDs). Interestingly, the same eye tracking systems have been used to 
directly compare face scanning patterns in some non-human primates to those in
human. Thus, eye tracking is expected to be a useful translational technique for 
investigating not only social attention and visual interest, but also the effects
of psychiatric drugs, such as oxytocin, a neuropeptide that regulates social
behavior. In this study, we report on a newly established method for eye tracking
in common marmosets as unique New World primates that, like humans, use eye
contact as a mean of communication. Our investigation was aimed at characterizing
these primates face scanning patterns and evaluating the effects of oxytocin on
their eye contact behavior. We found that normal common marmosets spend more time
viewing the eyes region in common marmoset's picture than the mouth region or a
scrambled picture. In oxytocin experiment, the change in eyes/face ratio was
significantly greater in the oxytocin group than in the vehicle group. Moreover, 
oxytocin-induced increase in the change in eyes/face ratio was completely blocked
by the oxytocin receptor antagonist L-368,899. These results indicate that eye
tracking in common marmosets may be useful for evaluating drug candidates
targeting psychiatric conditions, especially ASDs.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psyneuen.2017.05.009 
PMID: 28586711  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

