

867. Curr Biol. 2017 Jun 19;27(12):1844-1852.e6. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.05.004. Epub 
2017 May 25.

Vocal Learning via Social Reinforcement by Infant Marmoset Monkeys.

Takahashi DY(1), Liao DA(2), Ghazanfar AA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.
Electronic address: takahashiyd@gmail.com.
(2)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA.
(3)Princeton Neuroscience Institute, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544,
USA; Department of Psychology, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA;
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University, Princeton, 
NJ 08544, USA. Electronic address: asifg@princeton.edu.

For over half a century now, primate vocalizations have been thought to undergo
little or no experience-dependent acoustic changes during development [1]. If any
changes are apparent, then they are routinely (and quite reasonably) attributed
to the passive consequences of growth. Indeed, previous experiments on squirrel
monkeys and macaque monkeys showed that social isolation [2, 3], deafness [2],
cross-fostering [4] and parental absence [5] have little or no effect on vocal
development. Here, we explicitly test in marmoset monkeys-a very vocal and
cooperatively breeding species [6]-whether the transformation of immature into
mature contact calls by infants is influenced by contingent parental vocal
feedback. Using a closed-loop design, we experimentally provided more versus less
contingent vocal feedback to twin infant marmoset monkeys over their first
2 months of life, the interval during which their contact calls transform from
noisy, immature calls to tonal adult-like "phee" calls [7, 8]. Infants who
received more contingent feedback had a faster rate of vocal development,
producing mature-sounding contact calls earlier than the other twin. The
differential rate of vocal development was not linked to genetics, perinatal
experience, or body growth; nor did the amount of contingency influence the
overall rate of spontaneous vocal production. Thus, we provide the first
experimental evidence for production-related vocal learning during the
development of a nonhuman primate.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2017.05.004 
PMID: 28552359  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

