

87. Emerg Microbes Infect. 2021 Dec;10(1):1790-1806. doi:
10.1080/22221751.2021.1971569.

Long-term humoral immunogenicity, safety and protective efficacy of inactivated
vaccine against COVID-19 (CoviVac) in preclinical studies.

Kozlovskaya LI(1)(2), Piniaeva AN(1), Ignatyev GM(1), Gordeychuk IV(1)(2), Volok 
VP(1)(3), Rogova YV(1), Shishova AA(1)(2), Kovpak AA(1), Ivin YY(1), Antonova
LP(1), Mefyod KM(1), Prokosheva LS(1), Sibirkina AS(1), Tarasova YY(1), Bayurova 
EO(1), Gancharova OS(1), Illarionova VV(1), Glukhov GS(3), Sokolova OS(3),
Shaitan KV(3), Moysenovich AM(3), Gulyaev SA(1), Gulyaeva TV(1), Moroz AV(1),
Gmyl LV(1), Ipatova EG(1), Kirpichnikov MP(3), Egorov AM(1)(3), Siniugina AA(1), 
Ishmukhametov AA(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Chumakov Federal Scientific Center for Research and Development of
Immune-and-Biological Products of Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, Russia.
(2)Institute for Translational Medicine and Biotechnology, Sechenov First Moscow 
State Medical University, Moscow, Russia.
(3)Department of Biology, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.

The unprecedented in recent history global COVID-19 pandemic urged the
implementation of all existing vaccine platforms to ensure the availability of
the vaccines against COVID-19 to every country in the world. Despite the
multitude of high-quality papers describing clinical trials of different vaccine 
products, basic detailed data on general toxicity, reproductive toxicity,
immunogenicity, protective efficacy and durability of immune response in animal
models are scarce. Here, we developed a Î²-propiolactone-inactivated whole virion 
vaccine CoviVac and assessed its safety, protective efficacy, immunogenicity and 
stability of the immune response in rodents and non-human primates. The vaccine
showed no signs of acute/chronic, reproductive, embryo- and fetotoxicity, or
teratogenic effects, as well as no allergenic properties in studied animal
species. The vaccine induced stable and robust humoral immune response both in
form of specific anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG and NAbs in mice, Syrian hamsters, and
common marmosets. The NAb levels did not decrease significantly over the course
of one year. The course of two immunizations protected Syrian hamsters from
severe pneumonia upon intranasal challenge with the live virus. Robustness of the
vaccine manufacturing process was demonstrated as well. These data encouraged
further evaluation of CoviVac in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1080/22221751.2021.1971569 
PMCID: PMC8439218
PMID: 34427172  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

