

872. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2017 Jun 1;76(6):467-478. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nlx034.

Oxidative Injury and Iron Redistribution Are Pathological Hallmarks of Marmoset
Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis.

Dunham J(1), Bauer J(1), Campbell GR(1), Mahad DJ(1), van Driel N(1), van der Pol
SMA(1), 't Hart BA(1), Lassmann H(1), Laman JD(1), van Horssen J(1), Kap YS(1).

Author information: 
(1)From the Department of Immunobiology, Biomedical Primate Research Centre,
Rijswijk, The Netherlands (JD, NvD, BAH, YSK); Department of Neuroscience,
University Medical Center, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands
(JD, BAH, JDL); Medical University of Vienna, Center for Brain Research, Vienna, 
Austria (JB, HL); Centre for Neuroregeneration, University of Edinburgh,
Edinburgh, United Kingdom (GRC, DJM); and Department of Molecular Cell Biology
and Immunology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands (SMAvdP,
JvH).

Oxidative damage and iron redistribution are associated with the pathogenesis and
progression of multiple sclerosis (MS), but these aspects are not entirely
replicated in rodent experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) models.
Here, we report that oxidative burst and injury as well as redistribution of iron
are hallmarks of the MS-like pathology in the EAE model in the common marmoset.
Active lesions in the marmoset EAE brain display increased expression of
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase (p22phox, p47phox,
and gp91phox) and inducible nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity within lesions
with active inflammation and demyelination, coinciding with enhanced expression
of mitochondrial heat-shock protein 70 and superoxide dismutase 1 and 2. The EAE 
lesion-associated liberation of iron (due to loss of iron-containing myelin) was 
associated with altered expression of the iron metabolic markers FtH1,
lactoferrin, hephaestin, and ceruloplasmin. The enhanced expression of oxidative 
damage markers in inflammatory lesions indicates that the enhanced antioxidant
enzyme expression could not counteract reactive oxygen and nitrogen
species-induced cellular damage, as is also observed in MS brains. This study
demonstrates that oxidative injury and aberrant iron distribution are prominent
pathological hallmarks of marmoset EAE thus making this model suitable for
therapeutic intervention studies aimed at reducing oxidative stress and
associated iron dysmetabolism.

Â© 2017 American Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlx034 
PMID: 28505283  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

