

873. Neuroimage. 2017 Aug 1;156:78-86. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.05.013. Epub
2017 May 10.

A geometrically adjustable receive array for imaging marmoset cohorts.

Gilbert KM(1), Gati JS(2), Klassen LM(2), Zeman P(2), Schaeffer DJ(2), Everling
S(3), Menon RS(4).

Author information: 
(1)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St. N, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5B7. Electronic
address: kgilbert@robarts.ca.
(2)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St. N, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5B7.
(3)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St. N, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5B7; Department of
Physiology and Pharmacology, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.
(4)Centre for Functional and Metabolic Mapping, The University of Western
Ontario, 1151 Richmond St. N, London, Ontario, Canada N6A 5B7; Department of
Medical Biophysics, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is an increasingly popular animal model 
for translational neuroscience studies, during which anatomical and functional
MRI can be useful investigative tools. To attain the requisite SNR for
high-resolution acquisitions, the radiofrequency coil must be optimized for the
marmoset; however, relatively few custom coils have been developed that maximize 
SNR and are compatible with accelerated acquisitions. For the study of large
populations of animals, the heterogeneity in animal size reduces the
effectiveness of a "one size fits all" approach to coil sizing and makes coils
tailored to individual animals cost and time prohibitive. The approach taken in
this study was to create an 8-channel phased-array receive coil that was
adjustable to the width of the marmoset head, thereby negating the need for
tailored coils while still maintaining high SNR. Two marmosets of different size 
were imaged on a 9.4-T small-animal scanner. Consistent SNR was achieved in the
periphery of the brain between head sizes. When compared to a 15-channel, "one
size fits all" receive coil, the adjustable coil achieved 57% higher SNR in the
superior frontal and parietal cortices and 29% higher SNR in the centre of the
brain. The mean geometry factor of the adjustable coil was less than 1.2 for a
2-fold reduction factor in the left-right and anterior-posterior directions.
Geometry factors were compared to the 15-channel coil to guide future designs.
The adjustable coil was shown to be a practical means for anatomical and
echo-planar imaging of marmoset cohorts.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.05.013 
PMID: 28499849  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

