

874. Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 Aug;45(8):896-899. doi: 10.1124/dmd.117.075630. Epub 2017
May 11.

Regio- and Stereo-Selective Oxidation of a Cardiovascular Drug, Metoprolol,
Mediated by Cytochrome P450 2D and 3A Enzymes in Marmoset Livers.

Uehara S(1), Ishii S(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., S.I., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., S.I., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

A β-blocker, metoprolol, is one of the in vivo probes for human cytochrome P450
(P450) 2D6. Investigation of nonhuman primate P450 enzymes helps to improve the
accuracy of the extrapolation of pharmacokinetic data from animals into humans.
Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are a potential primate model for
preclinical research, but the detailed roles of marmoset P450 enzymes in
metoprolol oxidation remain unknown. In this study, regio- and stereo-selectivity
of metoprolol oxidations by a variety of P450 enzymes in marmoset and human
livers were investigated in vitro. Although liver microsomes from cynomolgus
monkeys and rats preferentially mediated S-metoprolol O-demethylation and
R-metoprolol α-hydroxylation, respectively, those from humans, marmosets,
minipigs, and dogs preferentially mediated R-metoprolol O-demethylation, in
contrast to the slow rates of R- and S-metoprolol oxidation in mouse liver
microsomes. R- and S-metoprolol O-demethylation activities in marmoset livers
were strongly inhibited by quinidine and ketoconazole, and were significantly
correlated with bufuralol 1'-hydroxylation and midazolam 1'-hydroxylation
activities and also with P450 2D and 3A4 contents, which is different from the
case in human livers that did not have any correlations with P450 3A-mediated
midazolam 1'-hydroxylation. Recombinant human P450 2D6 enzyme and marmoset P450
2D6/3A4 enzymes effectively catalyzed R-metoprolol O-demethylation, comparable to
the activities of human and marmoset liver microsomes, respectively. These
results indicated that the major roles of P450 2D enzymes for the regio- and
stereo-selectivity of metoprolol oxidation were similar between human and
marmoset livers, but the minor roles of P450 3A enzymes were unique to marmosets.

Copyright © 2017 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.117.075630 
PMID: 28495902  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

