

875. PLoS One. 2017 May 11;12(5):e0176597. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0176597.
eCollection 2017.

Non-human primate orthologues of TMPRSS2 cleave and activate the influenza virus 
hemagglutinin.

Zmora P(1), Molau-Blazejewska P(1), Bertram S(1), Walendy-Gnirß K(1), Nehlmeier
I(1), Hartleib A(1), Moldenhauer AS(1), Konzok S(2), Dehmel S(2), Sewald K(2),
Brinkmann C(1), Curths C(2)(3), Knauf S(3)(4), Gruber J(5), Mätz-Rensing K(3),
Dahlmann F(2)(3), Braun A(2), Pöhlmann S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Infection Biology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Division Preclinical Pharmacology and In Vitro Toxicology, Fraunhofer
Institute for Toxicology and Experimental Medicine; Biomedical Research in
Endstage and Obstructive Lung Disease Hannover (BREATH), Member of the German
Center for Lung Research, Nikolai-Fuchs-Strasse 1, Hannover, Germany.
(3)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute, Kellnerweg 4,
Göttingen, Germany.
(4)Workgroup Neglected Tropical Diseases, German Primate Center,
Leibniz-Institute, Kellnerweg 4, Göttingen, Germany.
(5)Primate Genetics Laboratory, Junior Research Group "Medical RNA Biology,"
German Primate Center, Leibniz-Institute, Göttingen, Germany.

The cellular serine protease TMPRSS2, a member of the type II transmembrane
serine protease (TTSP) family, cleaves and activates the hemagglutinin of
influenza A viruses (FLUAV) in cell culture and is essential for spread of
diverse FLUAV in mice. Non-human primates (NHP), in particular rhesus and
cynomolgus macaques, serve as animal models for influenza and experimental FLUAV 
infection of common marmosets has recently also been reported. However, it is
currently unknown whether the NHP orthologues of human TMPRSS2 cleave and
activate FLUAV hemagglutinin and contribute to viral spread in respiratory
tissue. Here, we cloned and functionally analyzed the macaque and marmoset
orthologues of human TMPRSS2. In addition, we analyzed the macaque orthologues of
human TMPRSS4 and HAT, which also belong to the TTSP family. We found that all
NHP orthologues of human TMPRSS2, TMPRSS4 and HAT cleave and activate HA upon
directed expression and provide evidence that endogenous TMPRSS2 is expressed in 
the respiratory epithelium of rhesus macaques. Finally, we demonstrate that a
serine protease inhibitor active against TMPRSS2 suppresses FLUAV spread in
precision-cut lung slices of human, macaque and marmoset origin. These results
indicate that FLUAV depends on serine protease activity for spread in diverse NHP
and in humans. Moreover, our findings suggest that macaques and marmosets may
serve as models to study FLUAV activation by TMPRSS2 in human patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0176597 
PMCID: PMC5426610
PMID: 28493964  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

