

877. Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 Aug;45(8):883-886. doi: 10.1124/dmd.117.076042. Epub 2017
May 9.

Molecular Cloning and Characterization of Marmoset Aldehyde Oxidase.

Uehara S(1), Uno Y(1), Okamoto E(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., E.O., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan
(E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., E.O., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Tokyo, Japan
(E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), New World monkeys, are a promising primate
model for preclinical drug metabolism studies because of the similarities of
cytochrome P450 (P450) enzyme function to those of humans. Despite an increasing 
number of drug candidates catalyzed by non-P450 enzymes, drug metabolizing
enzymes other than P450s have been hardly identified or characterized in
marmosets. In this study, we identified aldehyde oxidase (AOX) 1 gene by marmoset
genome analysis. AOX1 cDNA was cloned from marmoset livers by reverse
transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Deduced amino acid sequences of AOX1
cDNA showed high sequence identities (92-93%) with primate AOX1s. Phylogenetic
analysis showed that marmoset AOX1 was closely clustered with primate AOX1s,
unlike nonprimate animal model AOX1s of pig, rabbit, rat, and mouse used in drug 
metabolism. The tissue expression analyses by real-time reverse-transcription
polymerase chain reaction and immunoblotting showed that marmoset AOX1 mRNA and
protein were abundantly expressed in livers, similar to cynomolgus monkeys and
humans. Marmoset AOX1 heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli catalyzed the 
oxidation of carbazeran and phthalazine, typical AOX1 substrates, similar to
cynomolgus monkey and human AOX1s. Human and marmoset AOX1 effectively catalyzed 
phthalazine oxidation when assessed with Michaelis-Menten kinetics, but
cynomolgus monkey AOX1 catalyzed this reaction with cooperative kinetics with
high capacity. These results indicated that tissue distribution and enzymatic
function of AOX1 enzyme is similar between marmosets and humans, suggesting that 
marmosets are a suitable primate model for AOX-dependent drug metabolism in
preclinical studies.

Copyright Â© 2017 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.117.076042 
PMID: 28487309  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

