

88. J Neurosci. 2021 Sep 29;41(39):8197-8209. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0824-21.2021.
Epub 2021 Aug 20.

Visual Cortical Area MT Is Required for Development of the Dorsal Stream and
Associated Visuomotor Behaviors.

Kwan WC(1), Chang CK(1), Yu HH(2), Mundinano IC(1), Fox DM(1), Homman-Ludiye
J(1), Bourne JA(3).

Author information: 
(1)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria 3800, Australia.
(2)Department of Physiology, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria 3800,
Australia.
(3)Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute, Monash University, Clayton,
Victoria 3800, Australia James.Bourne@monash.edu.

The middle temporal (MT) area of the extrastriate visual cortex has long been
studied in adulthood for its distinctive physiological properties and function as
a part of the dorsal stream, yet interestingly it possesses a similar maturation 
profile as the primary visual cortex (V1). Here, we examined whether an
early-life lesion in MT of marmoset monkeys (six female, two male) altered the
dorsal stream development and the behavioral precision of reaching-to-grasp
sequences. We observed permanent changes in the anatomy of cortices associated
with both reaching (parietal and medial intraparietal areas) and grasping
(anterior intraparietal area), as well as in reaching-and-grasping behaviors. In 
addition, we observed a significant impact on the anatomy of V1 and the direction
sensitivity of V1 neurons in the lesion projection zone. These findings indicate 
that area MT is a crucial node in the development of primate vision, affecting
both V1 and areas in the dorsal visual pathway known to mediate visually guided
manual behaviors.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT Previous studies have identified a role
for the MT area of the visual cortex in perceiving motion, yet none have examined
its central role in the development of the visual cortex and in the establishment
of visuomotor behaviors. To address this, we used a unilateral MT lesion model in
neonatal marmosets before examining the anatomic, physiological, and behavioral
consequences. In adulthood, we observed perturbations in goal-orientated
reach-and-grasp behavior, altered direction selectivity of V1 neurons, and
changes in the cytoarchitecture throughout dorsal stream areas. This study
highlights the importance of MT as a central node in visual system development
and consequential visuomotor activity.

Copyright Â© 2021 the authors.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.0824-21.2021 
PMCID: PMC8482858 [Available on 2022-03-29]
PMID: 34417331  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

