

880. J Infect Dis. 2017 Jun 15;215(12):1807-1815. doi: 10.1093/infdis/jix209.

Human Neutralizing Monoclonal Antibody Inhibition of Middle East Respiratory
Syndrome Coronavirus Replication in the Common Marmoset.

Chen Z(1), Bao L(2), Chen C(1), Zou T(3), Xue Y(1), Li F(2), Lv Q(2), Gu S(2),
Gao X(1), Cui S(1), Wang J(1), Qin C(2), Jin Q(1)(4).

Author information: 
(1)MOH Key Laboratory of Systems Biology of Pathogens, Institute of Pathogen
Biology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College.
(2)Institute of Laboratory Animal Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences &
Peking Union Medical College, Key Laboratory of Human Disease Comparative
Medicine, Ministry of Health, Beijing Key Laboratory for Animal Models of
Emerging and Remerging Infectious Diseases.
(3)College of Life Sciences and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University,
Wuhan.
(4)Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious
Diseases, Hangzhou, China.

Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) infection in humans is
highly lethal, with a fatality rate of 35%. New prophylactic and therapeutic
strategies to combat human infections are urgently needed. We isolated a fully
human neutralizing antibody, MCA1, from a human survivor. The antibody recognizes
the receptor-binding domain of MERS-CoV S glycoprotein and interferes with the
interaction between viral S and the human cellular receptor human dipeptidyl
peptidase 4 (DPP4). To our knowledge, this study is the first to report a human
neutralizing monoclonal antibody that completely inhibits MERS-CoV replication in
common marmosets. Monotherapy with MCA1 represents a potential alternative
treatment for human infections with MERS-CoV worthy of evaluation in clinical
settings.

Â© Crown copyright 2017.

DOI: 10.1093/infdis/jix209 
PMCID: PMC7107363
PMID: 28472421  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

