

882. Primate Biol. 2017 Apr 28;4(1):93-100. doi: 10.5194/pb-4-93-2017. eCollection
2017.

Feasibility of intravitreal injections and ophthalmic safety assessment in
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) monkeys.

Korbmacher B(1), Atorf J(2), Fridrichs-Gromoll S(1), Hill M(3), Korte S(1),
Kremers J(2), Mansfield K(3), Mecklenburg L(1), Pilling A(3), Wiederhold A(1).

Author information: 
(1)Covance Preclinical Services GmbH, Kesselfeld 29, 48163 Münster, Germany.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital Erlangen, Maximiliansplatz 2,
91054 Erlangen, Germany.
(3)Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Klybeckstraße, 4002 Basel, Switzerland.

To safeguard patients, regulatory authorities require that new drugs that are to 
be given by the intravitreal (IVT) route are assessed for their safety in a
laboratory species using the same route of administration. Due to the high
similarity of ocular morphology and physiology between humans and nonhuman
primates (NHPs) and due to the species specificity of many biotherapeutics, the
monkey is often the only appropriate model. To this end, intravitreal
administration and assessment of ocular toxicity are well established in
cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). In contrast, the common marmoset monkey
(Callithrix jacchus) is not a standard model for ocular toxicity studies due to
its general sensitivity to laboratory investigations and small eye size. It was
the purpose of the present work to study whether the marmoset is a useful
alternative to the cynomolgus monkey for use in intravitreal toxicological
studies. Six marmoset monkeys received repeated (every 2 weeks for a total of
four doses) intravitreal injections of 10 or 20  µ L of a placebo. The animals
were assessed for measurements of intraocular pressure (IOP), standard
ophthalmological investigations and electroretinography (ERG). At the end of the 
dosing period, the animals were sacrificed and the eyes were evaluated
histologically. ERG revealed similar results when comparing predose to
end-of-study data, and there was no difference between the two dose volumes. A
transient increase in the IOP was seen immediately after dosing, which was more
pronounced after dosing of 20  µ L compared to 10  µ L. Ophthalmologic and
microscopic observations did not show any significant changes. Therefore, it can 
be concluded that 10  µ L as well as 20  µ L intravitreal injections of a placebo
are well tolerated in the marmoset. These results demonstrate that the common
marmoset is an alternative to the cynomolgus monkey for intravitreal toxicity
testing.

Copyright: © 2017 Birgit Korbmacher et al.

DOI: 10.5194/pb-4-93-2017 
PMCID: PMC7041524
PMID: 32110696 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.

