

884. J Anim Physiol Anim Nutr (Berl). 2018 Feb;102(1):e1-e10. doi: 10.1111/jpn.12694. 
Epub 2017 Apr 26.

Trialling nutrient recommendations for slow lorises (Nycticebus spp.) based on
wild feeding ecology.

Cabana F(1)(2), Dierenfeld E(3), Wirdateti W(4), Donati G(1), Nekaris KAI(1).

Author information: 
(1)Nocturnal Primate Research Group, Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, UK.
(2)Wildlife Nutrition Centre, Wildlife Reserves Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.
(3)Ellen Dierenfeld Consultancy LLC, Saint Louis, MO, USA.
(4)Lembaga Ilmu Pengetahuan Indonesia, Bogor, Indonesia.

Slow loris (Nycticebus spp.) captive diets have been based on routine and
anecdotes rather than scientific fact. The growing body of evidence contradicts
the high fruit diet supported by such anecdotes. Non-human primate nutrient
requirements are grouped into new (based on the common marmoset Callithrix
jacchus) or old world (based on rhesus macaques Macaca mulatta) primates. Slow
lorises are known to suffer from many health ailments in captivity such as dental
disease, obesity, wasting and kidney issues all of which have been linked to
diet. This study aimed to estimate nutrient intake from free-ranging slow lorises
and to determine whether this intake can be used as nutrient recommendations. We 
collected data of nutrient intake, food passage rate and digestibility of captive
slow lorises on three diet treatments 1: current captive type diet which is
mostly fruits, 2: wild-type diet made only of food items from their natural diet,
3: new diet made to reflect wild slow loris nutrient intake. In order to validate
our nutrient recommendations, diets 2 and 3 would have to be significantly
different to Diet 1 in terms of nutrients, but not different from each other.
Captive diets were significantly higher in soluble carbohydrates and lower in
minerals and fibre fractions than both diets 2 and 3. Diets 2 and 3 led to a
significantly increased food passage time and to more effective fibre and calcium
digestion compared to Diet 1. We also observed obese individuals lost weight and 
underweight individuals gained weight. Our nutrient recommendations have been
validated by our trials, and new or old world monkey nutrient recommendations are
not consistent with our results. Diets should be high in protein and fibre and
low in soluble carbohydrates and fats.

Â© 2017 Blackwell Verlag GmbH.

DOI: 10.1111/jpn.12694 
PMID: 28444791  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

