

890. J Neurophysiol. 2017 Jul 1;118(1):203-218. doi: 10.1152/jn.00954.2016. Epub 2017 
Apr 5.

Dynamic population codes of multiplexed stimulus features in primate area MT.

Goddard E(1)(2), Solomon SG(3), Carlson TA(4)(2).

Author information: 
(1)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia; erin.goddard@mcgill.ca.
(2)ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders (CCD), Macquarie
University, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia; and.
(3)Department of Experimental Psychology, University College London, London,
United Kingdom.
(4)School of Psychology, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales,
Australia.

The middle-temporal area (MT) of primate visual cortex is critical in the
analysis of visual motion. Single-unit studies suggest that the response dynamics
of neurons within area MT depend on stimulus features, but how these dynamics
emerge at the population level, and how feature representations interact, is not 
clear. Here, we used multivariate classification analysis to study how stimulus
features are represented in the spiking activity of populations of neurons in
area MT of marmoset monkey. Using representational similarity analysis we
distinguished the emerging representations of moving grating and dot field
stimuli. We show that representations of stimulus orientation, spatial frequency,
and speed are evident near the onset of the population response, while the
representation of stimulus direction is slower to emerge and sustained throughout
the stimulus-evoked response. We further found a spatiotemporal asymmetry in the 
emergence of direction representations. Representations for high spatial
frequencies and low temporal frequencies are initially orientation dependent,
while those for high temporal frequencies and low spatial frequencies are more
sensitive to motion direction. Our analyses reveal a complex interplay of feature
representations in area MT population response that may explain the
stimulus-dependent dynamics of motion vision.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Simultaneous
multielectrode recordings can measure population-level codes that previously were
only inferred from single-electrode recordings. However, many multielectrode
recordings are analyzed using univariate single-electrode analysis approaches,
which fail to fully utilize the population-level information. Here, we overcome
these limitations by applying multivariate pattern classification analysis and
representational similarity analysis to large-scale recordings from
middle-temporal area (MT) in marmoset monkeys. Our analyses reveal a dynamic
interplay of feature representations in area MT population response.

Copyright Â© 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00954.2016 
PMCID: PMC5494367
PMID: 28381492  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

