

891. eNeuro. 2017 Mar 28;4(2). pii: ENEURO.0250-16.2017. doi:
10.1523/ENEURO.0250-16.2017. eCollection 2017 Mar-Apr.

Transgenic Monkey Model of the Polyglutamine Diseases Recapitulating Progressive 
Neurological Symptoms.

Tomioka I(1), Ishibashi H(1), Minakawa EN(2), Motohashi HH(1), Takayama O(1),
Saito Y(3), Popiel HA(2), Puentes S(1), Owari K(1), Nakatani T(1), Nogami N(1),
Yamamoto K(4), Noguchi S(5), Yonekawa T(5), Tanaka Y(3), Fujita N(1), Suzuki
H(1), Kikuchi H(2), Aizawa S(2), Nagano S(6), Yamada D(2), Nishino I(5), Ichinohe
N(7), Wada K(2), Kohsaka S(8), Nagai Y(2), Seki K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neuroscience National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(2)Department of Degenerative Neurological Diseases, National Institute of
Neuroscience National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, National Institute of
Neuroscience National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(4)Division of Laboratory Animals Resources, National Institute of Neuroscience
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(5)Department of Neuromuscular Research, National Institute of Neuroscience
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(6)Department of Peripheral Nervous System Research, National Institute of
Neuroscience National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(7)Department of Ultrastructural Research, National Institute of Neuroscience
National Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.
(8)Department of Neurochemistry, National Institute of Neuroscience National
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry , Tokyo 187-8502, Japan.

Age-associated neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease,
Parkinson's disease, and the polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases, are becoming
prevalent as a consequence of elongation of the human lifespan. Although various 
rodent models have been developed to study and overcome these diseases, they have
limitations in their translational research utility owing to differences from
humans in brain structure and function and in drug metabolism. Here, we generated
a transgenic marmoset model of the polyQ diseases, showing progressive
neurological symptoms including motor impairment. Seven transgenic marmosets were
produced by lentiviral introduction of the human ataxin 3 gene with 120 CAG
repeats encoding an expanded polyQ stretch. Although all offspring showed no
neurological symptoms at birth, three marmosets with higher transgene expression 
developed neurological symptoms of varying degrees at 3-4 months after birth,
followed by gradual decreases in body weight gain, spontaneous activity, and grip
strength, indicating time-dependent disease progression. Pathological
examinations revealed neurodegeneration and intranuclear polyQ protein inclusions
accompanied by gliosis, which recapitulate the neuropathological features of
polyQ disease patients. Consistent with neuronal loss in the cerebellum, brain
MRI analyses in one living symptomatic marmoset detected enlargement of the
fourth ventricle, which suggests cerebellar atrophy. Notably, successful germline
transgene transmission was confirmed in the second-generation offspring derived
from the symptomatic transgenic marmoset gamete. Because the accumulation of
abnormal proteins is a shared pathomechanism among various neurodegenerative
diseases, we suggest that this new marmoset model will contribute toward
elucidating the pathomechanisms of and developing clinically applicable therapies
for neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1523/ENEURO.0250-16.2017 
PMCID: PMC5368386
PMID: 28374014  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

