

893. Mol Biol Evol. 2017 Jul 1;34(7):1629-1643. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msx105.

Convergent Balancing Selection on the Mu-Opioid Receptor in Primates.

Sweeney CG(1), Rando JM(1), Panas HN(1), Miller GM(1), Platt DM(1), Vallender
EJ(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neuroscience, New England Primate Research Center, Harvard Medical
School, Southborough, MA.

The mu opioid receptor is involved in many natural processes including stress
response, pleasure, and pain. Mutations in the gene also have been associated
with opiate and alcohol addictions as well as with responsivity to medication
targeting these disorders. Two common and mutually exclusive polymorphisms have
been identified in humans, A118G (N40D), found commonly in non-African
populations, and C17T (V6A), found almost exclusively in African populations.
Although A118G has been studied extensively for associations and in functional
assays, C17T is much less well understood. In addition to a parallel polymorphism
previously identified in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta), C77G (P26R),
resequencing in additional non-human primate species identifies further common
variation: C140T (P47L) in cynomolgus macaques (Macaca fascicularis), G55C (D19H)
in vervet monkeys (Chlorocebus aethiops sabeus), A111T (L37F) in marmosets
(Callithrix jacchus), and C55T (P19S) in squirrel monkeys (Saimiri boliviensis
peruviensis). Functional effects on downstream signaling are observed for each of
these variants following treatment with the endogenous agonist β-endorphin and
the exogenous agonists morphine, DAMGO ([d-Ala2, N-Me-Phe4, Gly5-ol]-enkephalin),
and fentanyl. In addition to demonstrating the importance of functional
equivalency in reference to population variation for minority health, this also
shows how common evolutionary pressures have produced similar phenotypes across
species, suggesting a shared response to environmental needs and perhaps
elucidating the mechanism by which these organism-environment interactions are
mediated physiologically and molecularly. These studies set the stage for future 
investigations of shared functional polymorphisms across species as a new genetic
tool for translational research.

© The Author 2017. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution. All rights reserved. For permissions, please
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msx105 
PMCID: PMC6279279
PMID: 28333316  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

