

897. IEEE Trans Ultrason Ferroelectr Freq Control. 2017 May;64(5):798-810. doi:
10.1109/TUFFC.2017.2681695. Epub 2017 Mar 13.

Targeting Effects on the Volume of the Focused Ultrasound-Induced Blood-Brain
Barrier Opening in Nonhuman Primates In Vivo.

Karakatsani MEM, Samiotaki GM, Downs ME, Ferrera VP, Konofagou EE.

Drug delivery to subcortical regions is susceptible to the blood-brain barrier
(BBB) impeding the molecular exchange between the blood stream and the brain
parenchyma. Focused ultrasound (FUS) coupled with the administration of
microbubbles has been proved to open the BBB locally, transiently, and
noninvasively both in rodents and in nonhuman-primates (NHPs). The development of
this disruption technique independent of MRI monitoring is of primordial
importance yet restrained to the targeting optimization. This paper establishes
the linear relationship of the incidence angle with the volume of BBB opening (
VBBB ) and the peak negative pressure when sonicating the caudate nucleus and the
putamen region of five NHPs. In addition, the effect of central nervous system
structures on the opening morphology is evaluated by identification of the
gray-to-white-matter ratio at the opening site. Finally, the targeting accuracy
is assessed through the estimation of the geometric and angle shift of the
opening from the targeted region. Interestingly, results prove a monotonic
increase of the opening volume with close to normal incidence angles. Moreover,
80.35% of the opening lies on gray-matter regions compared with only 19.41%
attributed to the white matter. The opening was found to be shifted axially,
toward the transducer, and laterally with an average angle shift of 4.5Â°.
Finally, we were capable of showing reproducibility of targeting accuracy with
the same stereotactic and ultrasonic parameters. This paper documents the a
priori prediction of the opening volume through manipulation of the angle and
pressure as well as establishing the predictability, accuracy, and safety of
FUS-induced BBB opening in NHPs.

DOI: 10.1109/TUFFC.2017.2681695 
PMCID: PMC5542068
PMID: 28320656  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

