

903. Hear Res. 2017 May;348:98-111. doi: 10.1016/j.heares.2017.03.001. Epub 2017 Mar
9.

Contributions of sensory tuning to auditory-vocal interactions in marmoset
auditory cortex.

Eliades SJ(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery, University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA. Electronic
address: seliades@med.upenn.edu.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

During speech, humans continuously listen to their own vocal output to ensure
accurate communication. Such self-monitoring is thought to require the
integration of information about the feedback of vocal acoustics with internal
motor control signals. The neural mechanism of this auditory-vocal interaction
remains largely unknown at the cellular level. Previous studies in naturally
vocalizing marmosets have demonstrated diverse neural activities in auditory
cortex during vocalization, dominated by a vocalization-induced suppression of
neural firing. How underlying auditory tuning properties of these neurons might
contribute to this sensory-motor processing is unknown. In the present study, we 
quantitatively compared marmoset auditory cortex neural activities during vocal
production with those during passive listening. We found that neurons excited
during vocalization were readily driven by passive playback of vocalizations and 
other acoustic stimuli. In contrast, neurons suppressed during vocalization
exhibited more diverse playback responses, including responses that were not
predictable by auditory tuning properties. These results suggest that
vocalization-related excitation in auditory cortex is largely a sensory-driven
response. In contrast, vocalization-induced suppression is not well predicted by 
a neuron's auditory responses, supporting the prevailing theory that internal
motor-related signals contribute to the auditory-vocal interaction observed in
auditory cortex.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heares.2017.03.001 
PMCID: PMC5392437
PMID: 28284736  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

