

905. Neuroimage. 2018 Jan 1;164:121-130. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.03.005. Epub
2017 Mar 6.

Investigating the spatiotemporal characteristics of the deoxyhemoglobin-related
and deoxyhemoglobin-unrelated functional hemodynamic response across cortical
layers in awake marmosets.

Yen CC(1), Papoti D(1), Silva AC(2).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(2)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. Electronic address:
SilvaA@ninds.nih.gov.

Blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging
(fMRI) has become a major tool to map neural activity. However, the
spatiotemporal characteristics of the BOLD functional hemodynamic response across
the cortical layers remain poorly understood. While human fMRI studies suffer
from low spatiotemporal resolution, the use of anesthesia in animal models
introduces confounding factors. Additionally, inflow contributions to the fMRI
signal become non-negligible when short repetition times (TRs) are used. In the
present work, we mapped the BOLD fMRI response to somatosensory stimulation in
awake marmosets. To address the above technical concerns, we used a dual-echo
gradient-recalled echo planar imaging (GR-EPI) sequence to separate the
deoxyhemoglobin-related response (absolute T2* differences) from the
deoxyhemoglobin-unrelated response (relative S0 changes). We employed a spatial
saturation pulse to saturate incoming arterial spins and reduce inflow effects.
Functional GR-EPI images were obtained from a single coronal slice with two
different echo times (13.5 and 40.5ms) and TR=0.2s. BOLD, T2*, and S0 images were
calculated and their functional responses were detected in both hemispheres of
primary somatosensory cortex, from which five laminar regions (L1+2, L3, L4, L5, 
and L6) were derived. The spatiotemporal distribution of the BOLD response across
the cortical layers was heterogeneous, with the middle layers having the highest 
BOLD amplitudes and shortest onset times. Î”T2* also showed a similar trend.
However, functional S0 changes were detected only in L1+2, with a fast onset
time. Because inflow effects were minimized, the source of S0 functional changes 
in L1+2 could be attributed to a reduction of cerebrospinal fluid volume fraction
due to the functional increase in cerebral blood volume and to unmodeled T2*
changes in the extra- and intra-venous compartments. Caution should be exercised 
when interpreting laminar BOLD fMRI changes in superficial layers as surrogates
of underlying neural activity.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2017.03.005 
PMCID: PMC5587354
PMID: 28274833  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

