

907. Drug Metab Dispos. 2017 May;45(5):497-500. doi: 10.1124/dmd.117.075184. Epub 2017
Mar 3.

Marmoset Flavin-Containing Monooxygenase 3 in the Liver Is a Major Benzydamine
and Sulindac Sulfide Oxygenase.

Uehara S(1), Shimizu M(1), Uno Y(1), Inoue T(1), Sasaki E(1), Yamazaki H(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.).
(2)Laboratory of Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, Showa Pharmaceutical
University, Machida, Tokyo, Japan (S.U., M.S., H.Y.); Pharmacokinetics and
Bioanalysis Center, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd., Kainan, Wakayama, 
Japan (Y.U.); Department of Applied Developmental Biology (T.I.) and Center of
Applied Developmental Biology (E.S.), Central Institute for Experimental Animals,
Kawasaki, Japan; and Keio Advanced Research Center, Keio University, Minato-ku,
Tokyo, Japan (E.S.) hyamazak@ac.shoyaku.ac.jp.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) are potentially primate models for
preclinical drug metabolism studies because there are similarities in the
molecular characteristics of cytochrome P450 enzymes between this species and
humans. However, characterization of non-cytochrome P450 enzymes has not been
clarified in marmosets. Here, we report characterization of flavin-containing
monooxygenases FMO1-FMO5 identified in marmoset tissues. Marmoset FMO forms
shared high amino acid sequence identities (93%-95%) and phylogenetic closeness
with human homologous FMO forms. FMO1 and FMO3 mRNA were abundantly expressed in 
the liver and kidneys among five marmoset tissues examined, where FMO3 protein
was detected by immunoblotting. FMO inhibition assays using preheated tissue
microsomes indicated that benzydamine N-oxygenation and sulindac sulfide
S-oxygenation in the marmoset liver was mainly catalyzed by FMO3, the major
hepatic FMO. Marmoset FMO3 protein heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli
effectively catalyzed benzydamine N-oxygenation and sulindac sulfide
S-oxygenation comparable to marmoset liver microsomes. These results indicate
that the FMO3 enzyme expressed in marmoset livers mainly metabolizes benzydamine 
and sulindac sulfide (typical human FMO substrates), suggesting its importance
for FMO-dependent drug metabolism in marmosets.

Copyright Â© 2017 by The American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental
Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/dmd.117.075184 
PMID: 28258069  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

