

909. Primate Biol. 2017 Mar 1;4(1):17-25. doi: 10.5194/pb-4-17-2017. eCollection 2017.

Spontaneous lung pathology in a captive common marmoset colony (Callithrix
jacchus).

Bleyer M(1), Kunze M(1), Gruber-Dujardin E(1), Mätz-Rensing K(1).

Author information: 
(1)Pathology Unit, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077 Göttingen, Germany.

Data on spontaneous pathology are substantially scarce for common marmosets,
compared to other laboratory animals, but is essential for the interpretation of 
histological findings in the context of toxicological and experimental studies.
Especially if common marmosets are used as experimental animals in respiratory
research, detailed knowledge on the spectrum, occurrence, and incidence of
spontaneous histopathological pulmonary lesions in this non-human primate species
is required. In this study, lung tissue of 638 common marmosets from the marmoset
colony of the German Primate Center was examined histologically. The analysis
revealed a high incidence of predominantly mild and multifocal interstitial
pneumonia (32.99 %) of unknown etiology in most cases. Only few marmosets
exhibited lobar pneumonia (1.41 %) and bronchopneumonia (0.94), which were mainly
caused by bacterial pathogens such as Bordetella bronchiseptica and Klebsiella
pneumoniae. Lung immaturity and atelectasis were common histological findings in 
newborn marmosets. Typical background lesions included anthracosis (8.15 %),
hemosiderosis (1.72 %), extramedullary hematopoiesis (11.6 %), mineralization
(10.97 %), and inflammatory cell foci (10.34 %). In addition, three cases of
pulmonary arteriopathy (0.47 %) and 1 case of foreign-body granuloma (0.16 %)
were detected in the marmoset study cohort. The high prevalence of circulatory
disturbances (congestion, edema, hemorrhage) and changes in air content
(secondary atelectasis, alveolar emphysema) could partly be explained by
euthanasia-related artifacts or agonal changes. The present study provides a
comprehensive overview of the range and incidence of spontaneous pulmonary
histopathology in common marmosets, serving as valuable reference data for the
interpretation of lung lesions in toxicological and experimental marmoset
studies.

Copyright: © 2017 Martina Bleyer et al.

DOI: 10.5194/pb-4-17-2017 
PMCID: PMC7041528
PMID: 32110688 

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict of
interest.

