

91. J Comp Neurol. 2022 Feb;530(2):574-589. doi: 10.1002/cne.25230. Epub 2021 Aug 23.

Morphometric analysis of astrocytes in vocal production circuits of common
marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Turk AZ(1), SheikhBahaei S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Neuron-Glia Signaling and Circuits Unit, National Institute of Neurological
Disorders and Stroke, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Astrocytes, the star-shaped glial cells, are the most abundant non-neuronal cell 
population in the central nervous system. They play a key role in modulating
activities of neural networks, including those involved in complex motor
behaviors. Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus), the most vocal non-human
primate (NHP), have been used to study the physiology of vocalization and social 
vocal production. However, the neural circuitry involved in vocal production is
not fully understood. In addition, even less is known about the involvement of
astrocytes in this circuit. To understand the role, that astrocytes may play in
the complex behavior of vocalization, the initial step may be to study their
structural properties in the cortical and subcortical regions that are known to
be involved in vocalization. Here, in the common marmoset, we identify all
astrocytic subtypes seen in other primate's brains, including intralaminar
astrocytes. In addition, we reveal detailed structural characteristics of
astrocytes and perform morphometric analysis of astrocytes residing in the cortex
and midbrain regions that are associated with vocal production. We found that
cortical astrocytes in these regions illustrate a higher level of complexity when
compared to those in the midbrain. We hypothesize that this complexity that is
expressed in cortical astrocytes may reflect their functions to meet the
metabolic/structural needs of these regions.

Published 2021. This article is a U.S. Government work and is in the public
domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.25230 
PMCID: PMC8716418 [Available on 2023-02-01]
PMID: 34387357  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

