

917. Pharm Res. 2017 Apr;34(4):874-886. doi: 10.1007/s11095-017-2116-4. Epub 2017 Feb 
13.

Evaluation of the Utility of Chimeric Mice with Humanized Livers for the
Characterization and Profiling of the Metabolites of a Selective Inhibitor
(YM543) of the Sodium-Glucose Cotransporter 2.

Nakada N(1).

Author information: 
(1)Analysis & Pharmacokinetics Research Laboratories, Drug Discovery Research,
Astellas Pharma Inc., Miyukigaoka 21, Tsukuba-shi, Ibaraki, 305-8585, Japan.
naoyuki.nakada@astellas.com.

PURPOSE: YM543 is a novel selective inhibitor of the sodium-glucose cotransporter
2. The objectives of the current study were to evaluate the utility of mice with 
humanized livers to predict human drug metabolites using YM543 as a case example.
METHODS: Metabolites of YM543 generated in humans and experimental animals
including chimeric mice with humanized liver, PXB mice, were analyzed via liquid 
chromatography-mass spectrometry, liquid chromatography-radiometric detector or
nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer.
RESULTS: After oral administration of YM543, metabolites M1-M5 were detected in
human plasma and urine. M2-M4 were detected in at least one species while M1 was 
not generated by experimental animals or in vitro systems. In the metabolite
profiling in PXB mice, M1 was detected in both plasma and urine samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Metabolite profile of YM543 in PXB mice and humans was closely
resemble. and the human specific metabolite was detected in the model mice. The
human specific metabolite, M1, was difficult to know in advance to clinical
study. The ability to predict the human metabolite profile including presence of 
human specific metabolites using PXB mice will likely facilitate development of
new drug candidates for human use.

DOI: 10.1007/s11095-017-2116-4 
PMID: 28194636  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

