

925. Am J Primatol. 2017 May;79(5). doi: 10.1002/ajp.22638. Epub 2017 Jan 24.

Total energy expenditure in captive capuchins (Sapajus apella).

Edwards W(1)(2), Lonsdorf EV(3), Pontzer H(2)(4).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio.
(2)Department of Anthropology, Hunter College, New York, New York.
(3)Department of Psychology, Franklin and Marshall College, Lancaster,
Pennsylvania.
(4)New York Consortium of Evolutionary Primatology, New York, New York.

Primates have markedly lower total energy expenditure (TEE; kcal/day) than other 
placental mammals, expending approximately 50% less energy for their mass than
non-primate eutherians. However, little is known regarding interspecific
variation of energy expenditure within platyrrhine primates. We investigated TEE 
in captive tufted capuchins (Sapajus apella, n = 8, ages 7-36), a frugivorous
platyrrhine, to compare TEE with other placental mammals and primates. We tested 
the hypothesis that large-brained capuchins would exhibit greater TEE than other 
platyrrhines that are less encephalized. We used the doubly labeled water (DLW)
method to measure TEE over 7-11 days, during which physical activity data were
recorded via focal observation. TEE was strongly correlated with fat free mass,
but sex, age, and rates of walking and climbing were not correlated with
variation in TEE in multivariate analyses controlling for fat free mass. We found
evidence that daily physical activity was negatively correlated with body fat
percentage. Capuchin TEE was similar (P = 0.67) to other, less encephalized
platyrrhines (Callithrix and Alouatta) and 54% lower than other placental
mammals, in analyses controlling for body mass. These results suggest that brain 
size and physical activity do not necessarily influence variation in daily energy
expenditure across primate species.

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22638 
PMID: 28118497  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

