

927. Physiol Behav. 2017 May 1;173:79-86. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2017.01.032. Epub
2017 Jan 20.

Long-term-stability of relationship structure in family groups of common
marmosets, and its link to proactive prosociality.

Finkenwirth C(1), Burkart JM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland. Electronic address:
christa.finkenwirth@uzh.ch.
(2)Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Zurich,
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Cooperatively breeding, group-living common marmosets show differentiated
relationships, where more strongly bonded dyads within a group engage more in
affiliative interactions than less strongly bonded ones. Intriguingly, recent
results suggest that strong bonds do not only occur between breeding partners but
between individuals from any sex or status, and that strong-bond partners exhibit
correlated oxytocin fluctuations (dyadic oxytocin synchrony, OTS) over a period
of six weeks. To date, it is unclear whether such relationships are stable over
time and whether they are also reflected in higher partner-specific proactive
prosociality. To assess the long-term stability of the relationship structure of 
common marmoset family groups, we investigated whether hormonal and behavioral
markers of group structure (dyadic OTS, dyadic affiliation, and individual group 
integration) in common marmoset families remained stable over a period of six
months. We collected baseline urinary OT and social behavior of 36 dyads from
three family groups in a non-reproductive period (period A), and again six months
later, around the birth of new infants (period B). Patterns of dyadic OTS, dyadic
affiliation, and individual group integration were consistent between the two
study periods. Oxytocin data from a fourth group (10 dyads), collected in two
non-reproductive periods separated by a period of more than five years, could
replicate this finding. Furthermore, OTS was also correlated with proactive
prosociality that was assessed experimentally for 38 dyads during an earlier
study. These results suggest that differentiated relationships are stable over
time, even between group members other than the breeding pair, and that more
strongly bonded partners also show higher levels of proactive prosociality.
Future studies are necessary to identify whether these relationships have an
adaptive function, perhaps with regard to positive consequences on
cooperativeness.

Copyright Â© 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2017.01.032 
PMID: 28115225  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

