

929. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2017 Jan 31;114(5):E840-E848. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1607519114. Epub 2017 Jan 17.

Harmonic template neurons in primate auditory cortex underlying complex sound
processing.

Feng L(1), Wang X(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205.
(2)Laboratory of Auditory Neurophysiology, Department of Biomedical Engineering, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205
xiaoqin.wang@jhu.edu.

Harmonicity is a fundamental element of music, speech, and animal vocalizations. 
How the auditory system extracts harmonic structures embedded in complex sounds
and uses them to form a coherent unitary entity is not fully understood. Despite 
the prevalence of sounds rich in harmonic structures in our everyday hearing
environment, it has remained largely unknown what neural mechanisms are used by
the primate auditory cortex to extract these biologically important acoustic
structures. In this study, we discovered a unique class of harmonic template
neurons in the core region of auditory cortex of a highly vocal New World
primate, the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), across the entire hearing
frequency range. Marmosets have a rich vocal repertoire and a similar hearing
range to that of humans. Responses of these neurons show nonlinear facilitation
to harmonic complex sounds over inharmonic sounds, selectivity for particular
harmonic structures beyond two-tone combinations, and sensitivity to harmonic
number and spectral regularity. Our findings suggest that the harmonic template
neurons in auditory cortex may play an important role in processing sounds with
harmonic structures, such as animal vocalizations, human speech, and music.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1607519114 
PMCID: PMC5293092
PMID: 28096341  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.

