

934. Front Aging Neurosci. 2016 Dec 22;8:315. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2016.00315.
eCollection 2016.

Evidence of Tau Hyperphosphorylation and Dystrophic Microglia in the Common
Marmoset.

Rodriguez-Callejas JD(1), Fuchs E(2), Perez-Cruz C(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Neuroplasticity and Neurodegeneration, Department of
Pharmacology, Center for Research and Advanced Studies (CINVESTAV) Mexico City,
Mexico.
(2)Clinical Neurobiology Laboratory, German Primate Center - Leibniz Institute
for Primate Research, Göttingen Germany.

Erratum in
    Front Aging Neurosci. 2017 Feb 21;9:32.

Common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus) have recently gained popularity in
biomedical research as models of aging research. Basically, they confer
advantages from other non-human primates due to their shorter lifespan with onset
of appearance of aging at 8 years. Old marmosets present some markers linked to
neurodegeneration in the brain such as amyloid beta (Aβ)1-42 and Aβ1-40. However,
there are no studies exploring other cellular markers associated with
neurodegenerative diseases in this non-human primate. Using immunohistochemistry,
we analyzed brains of male adolescent, adult, old, and aged marmosets. We
observed accumulation of Aβ1-40 and Aβ1-42 in the cortex of aged subjects. Tau
hyperphosphorylation was already detected in the brain of adolescent animals and 
increased with aging in a more fibrillary form. Microglia activation was also
observed in the aging process, while a dystrophic phenotype accumulates in aged
subjects. Interestingly, dystrophic microglia contained hyperphosphorylated tau, 
but active microglia did not. These results support previous findings regarding
microglia dysfunctionality in aging and neurodegenerative diseases as Alzheimer's
disease. Further studies should explore the functional consequences of these
findings to position this non-human primate as animal model of aging and
neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2016.00315 
PMCID: PMC5177639
PMID: 28066237 

