

939. PLoS Pathog. 2016 Dec 27;12(12):e1006066. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1006066.
eCollection 2016 Dec.

Non-human Primate Schlafen11 Inhibits Production of Both Host and Viral Proteins.

Stabell AC(1), Hawkins J(2), Li M(3), Gao X(3), David M(3), Press WH(2)(4),
Sawyer SL(1).

Author information: 
(1)BioFrontiers Institute, University of Colorado Boulder, Boulder, CO, United
States of America.
(2)Institute for Computational Engineering and Sciences, University of Texas at
Austin, TX, United States of America.
(3)Division of Biological Sciences, UCSD Moores Cancer Center, University of
California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, United States of America.
(4)Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas at Austin, Austin, TX, 
United States of America.

Schlafen11 (encoded by the SLFN11 gene) has been shown to inhibit the
accumulation of HIV-1 proteins. We show that the SLFN11 gene is under positive
selection in simian primates and is species-specific in its activity against
HIV-1. The activity of human Schlafen11 is relatively weak compared to that of
some other primate versions of this protein, with the versions encoded by
chimpanzee, orangutan, gibbon, and marmoset being particularly potent inhibitors 
of HIV-1 protein production. Interestingly, we find that Schlafen11 is functional
in the absence of infection and reduces protein production from certain non-viral
(GFP) and even host (Vinculin and GAPDH) transcripts. This suggests that
Schlafen11 may just generally block protein production from non-codon optimized
transcripts. Because Schlafen11 is an interferon-stimulated gene with a broad
ability to inhibit protein production from many host and viral transcripts, its
role may be to create a general antiviral state in the cell. Interestingly, the
strong inhibitors such as marmoset Schlafen11 consistently block protein
production better than weak primate Schlafen11 proteins, regardless of the virus 
or host target being analyzed. Further, we show that the residues to which
species-specific differences in Schlafen11 potency map are distinct from residues
that have been targeted by positive selection. We speculate that the positive
selection of SLFN11 could have been driven by a number of different factors,
including interaction with one or more viral antagonists that have yet to be
identified.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1006066 
PMCID: PMC5189954
PMID: 28027315  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

