

94. Biosci Biotechnol Biochem. 2021 Sep 22;85(10):2113-2120. doi:
10.1093/bbb/zbab141.

Molecular cloning and characterization of common marmoset SULT1C subfamily
members that catalyze the sulfation of thyroid hormones.

Kurogi K(1), Manabe Y(1), Liu MC(2), Suiko M(1), Sakakibara Y(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Applied Biosciences, University of Miyazaki,
Miyazaki, Japan.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences,
The University of Toledo, Toledo, OH, USA.

Cytosolic sulfotransferase SULT1C subfamily is one of the most flexible gene
subfamilies during mammalian evolution. The physiological functions of SULT1C
enzymes still remain to be fully understood. In this study, common marmoset
(Callithrix jacchus), a promising primate animal model, was used to investigate
the functional relevance of the SULT1C subfamily. Gene database search revealed 3
intact SULT1C genes and a pseudogene in its genome. These 4 genes were named
SULT1C1, SULT1C2, SULT1C3P, and SULT1C5, according to the sequence homology and
gene location. Since SULT1C5 is the orthologous gene for human SULT1C2P, we
propose, here, to revisit the designation of human SULT1C2P to SULT1C5P. Purified
recombinant SULT1C enzymes showed sulfating activities toward a variety of
xenobiotic compounds and thyroid hormones. Kinetic analysis revealed high
catalytic activities of SULT1C1 and SULT1C5 for 3,3'-T2. It appears therefore
that SULT1C isoforms may play a role in the thyroid hormone metabolism in common 
marmoset.

Â© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japan
Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry.

DOI: 10.1093/bbb/zbab141 
PMCID: PMC8458394 [Available on 2022-08-09]
PMID: 34370005  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

