

941. Mol Neurobiol. 2017 Dec;54(10):8447-8457. doi: 10.1007/s12035-016-0329-x. Epub
2016 Dec 12.

Dynamic Regulation of Hypothalamic DMXL2, KISS1, and RFRP Expression During
Postnatal Development in Non-Human Primates.

Wahab F(1), Drummer C(2), Schlatt S(3), Behr R(4).

Author information: 
(1)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany. fazalendo@gmail.com.
(2)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany.
(3)Institute of Reproduction and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive
Medicine and Andrology, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, Building D11, 48149, Münster,
Germany.
(4)Platform Degenerative Diseases, German Primate Center, Kellnerweg 4, 37077,
Göttingen, Germany. rbehr@dpz.eu.

The neurobiological mechanism of puberty onset in primates is currently only
partly understood. A recent study reported an important role of Dmx-like 2
(DMXL2), a gene encoding rabconnectin-3α vesicular protein, in human subjects
with mental retardation and neuroendocrine impairment of reproduction. To further
characterize the potential role of DMXL2 in the regulation of reproduction, we
analyzed the expression of DMXL2 in hypothalami of newborn, infantile, juvenile, 
pubertal, and postpubertal female and male common marmoset monkeys. Additionally,
as the relative hypothalamic levels of gonadotropin-inhibitory hormone (GnIH)
transcript during postnatal development are unknown in primates, we also
quantified messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of RFRP, a gene encoding GnIH. Moreover,
the transcript levels of kisspeptin, a well-known regulator of the hypothalamic
neurohormonal axis controlling reproduction, were also checked. Transcript and
protein levels of DMXL2 and Kiss1 transcript levels increase from the newborn to 
the infantile and from the juvenile (prepubertal) to the pubertal and the
postpubertal period. We also noted a clear upsurge in RFRP transcript levels in
the prepubertal period. In conclusion, the hypothalamic expressions of Kiss1 and 
DMXL2 mRNA increase during infantile, pubertal, and adult stages compared to
newborn and juvenile stages in common marmoset monkeys. In contrast, the
expression of RFRP mRNA upsurges in juvenile monkeys. Further mechanistic studies
are needed to characterize the potential inhibitory role of the GnIH-GPR147
signaling in the prepubertal period and the role of DMXL2 in the molecular
cascade regulating the neuroendocrine reproductive axis in primates.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-016-0329-x 
PMCID: PMC5684250
PMID: 27957681  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

