

944. Behav Pharmacol. 2017 Jun;28(4):313-317. doi: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000275.

Effects of the 5-HT1A receptor agonists buspirone and 8-OH-DPAT on pupil size in 
common marmosets.

Kotani M(1), Urushino N, Natsutani I, Ogi Y, Ikeda K.

Author information: 
(1)aHigher Brain Function Research bBiomarker Group, Drug Development Research
Laboratories cDMPK Group I, Preclinical Research Laboratories, Drug Research
Division, Sumitomo Dainippon Pharma Co Ltd., Osaka, Japan.

As pupil size is affected by psychotropic drugs in all mammals, it has been used 
as a well-established clinical indicator for the preclinical and clinical
development of novel drugs. It has been reported that activation of the serotonin
(5-HT)1A receptor differently affects pupil response in rodents (mydriasis) and
humans (miosis). Thus, it is important to establish a quantitative system for
measuring pupil size using other species, such as nonhuman primates. Common
marmosets have recently attracted a great deal of attention as suitable
experimental animals in the psychoneurological field because of handling ease
compared with other nonhuman primates and the requirement for small amounts of
test drugs. In this study, we constructed a system for measuring changes in pupil
size using an infrared eye-tracking camera and evaluated the effects on pupil
size of the 5-HT1A receptor agonists buspirone, 8-OH-DPAT and buspirone active
metabolite 1-(2-pyrimidinyl) piperazine. Our results show that both buspirone and
8-OH-DPAT significantly decrease pupil size in a dose-dependent manner. The
5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 completely blocked both buspirone and
8-OH-DPAT-induced miosis, whereas 1-(2-pyrimidinyl) piperazine had no effect on
pupil size. These results suggest that measurement of pupil size may be a useful 
biomarker for predicting the pharmacodynamics of new 5-HT1A receptor agonists.

DOI: 10.1097/FBP.0000000000000275 
PMID: 27922541  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

