

948. J Immunol Methods. 2017 Feb;441:39-48. doi: 10.1016/j.jim.2016.11.011. Epub 2016 
Nov 24.

Systematic evaluation of monoclonal antibodies and immunoassays for the detection
of Interferon-γ and Interleukin-2 in old and new world non-human primates.

Höglind A(1), Areström I(1), Ehrnfelt C(1), Masjedi K(1), Zuber B(2), Giavedoni
L(3), Ahlborg N(4).

Author information: 
(1)Mabtech, Box 1233, SE-131 28, Nacka Strand, Sweden.
(2)Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, SE-112 76 Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Departments of Virology and Immunology and Southwest National Primate Research
Center, Texas Biomedical Research Institute, San Antonio, TX 78245-0549, USA.
(4)Mabtech, Box 1233, SE-131 28, Nacka Strand, Sweden; Department of Immunology, 
Stockholm University, SE-106 91 Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address:
niklas@mabtech.com.

Non-human primates (NHP) provide important animal models for studies on immune
responses to infections and vaccines. When assessing cellular immunity in NHP,
cytokines are almost exclusively analyzed utilizing cross-reactive anti-human
antibodies. The functionality of antibodies has to be empirically established for
each assay/application as well as NHP species. A rational approach was employed
to identify monoclonal antibodies (mAb) cross-reactive with many NHP species.
Panels of new and established mAbs against human Interferon (IFN)-γ and
Interleukin (IL)-2 were assessed for reactivity with eukaryotically expressed
recombinant IFN-γ and IL-2, respectively, from Old (rhesus, cynomolgus and
pigtail macaques, African green monkey, sooty mangabey and baboon) and New World 
NHP (Ma's night monkey, squirrel monkey and common marmoset). Pan-reactive mAbs, 
recognizing cytokines from all NHP species, were further analyzed in capture
assays and flow cytometry with NHP peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC).
Pan-reactive mAb pairs for IFN-γ well as IL-2 were identified and used in ELISA
to measure IFN-γ and IL-2, respectively, in Old and New World NHP PBMC
supernatants. The same mAb pairs displayed high functionality in ELISpot and
FluoroSpot for the measurement of antigen-specific IFN-γ and IL-2 responses using
cynomolgus PBMC. Functionality of pan-reactive mAbs in flow cytometry was also
verified with cynomolgus PBMC. The development of well-defined immunoassays
functional with a panel of NHP species facilitates improved analyses of cellular 
immunity and enables inclusion in multiplex cytokine assays intended for a
variety of NHP.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jim.2016.11.011 
PMCID: PMC5563966
PMID: 27889562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

