

95. Genes (Basel). 2021 Jul 16;12(7). pii: 1082. doi: 10.3390/genes12071082.

Dynamic Spatiotemporal Expression Changes in Connexins of the Developing
Primate's Cochlea.

Hosoya M(1), Fujioka M(1), Murayama AY(2)(3), Ogawa K(1), Okano H(2)(3), Ozawa
H(1).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Keio University
School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Physiology, Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi 
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-8582, Japan.
(3)Laboratory for Marmoset Neural Architecture, RIKEN Center for Brain Science,
Wako 351-0198, Japan.

Connexins are gap junction components that are essential for acquiring normal
hearing ability. Up to 50% of congenital, autosomal-recessive, non-syndromic
deafness can be attributed to variants in GJB2, the gene that encodes connexin
26. Gene therapies modifying the expression of connexins are a feasible treatment
option for some patients with genetic hearing losses. However, the expression
patterns of these proteins in the human fetus are not fully understood due to
ethical concerns. Recently, the common marmoset was used as a primate animal
model for the human fetus. In this study, we examined the expression patterns of 
connexin 26 and connexin 30 in the developing cochlea of this primate.
Primate-specific spatiotemporal expression changes were revealed, which suggest
the existence of primate-specific control of connexin expression patterns and
specific functions of these gap junction proteins. Moreover, our results indicate
that treatments for connexin-related hearing loss established in rodent models
may not be appropriate for human patients, underscoring the importance of testing
these treatments in primate models before applying them in human clinical trials.

DOI: 10.3390/genes12071082 
PMCID: PMC8307058
PMID: 34356098  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

