

950. J Neurophysiol. 2017 Feb 1;117(2):713-727. doi: 10.1152/jn.00476.2016. Epub 2016 
Nov 23.

Contextual effects of noise on vocalization encoding in primary auditory cortex.

Ni R(1), Bender DA(1), Shanechi AM(1), Gamble JR(1), Barbour DL(2).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri.
(2)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri
dbarbour@wustl.edu.

Robust auditory perception plays a pivotal function for processing behaviorally
relevant sounds, particularly with distractions from the environment. The
neuronal coding enabling this ability, however, is still not well understood. In 
this study, we recorded single-unit activity from the primary auditory cortex
(A1) of awake marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus) while delivering conspecific 
vocalizations degraded by two different background noises: broadband white noise 
and vocalization babble. Noise effects on neural representation of target
vocalizations were quantified by measuring the responses' similarity to those
elicited by natural vocalizations as a function of signal-to-noise ratio. A
clustering approach was used to describe the range of response profiles by
reducing the population responses to a summary of four response classes (robust, 
balanced, insensitive, and brittle) under both noise conditions. This clustering 
approach revealed that, on average, approximately two-thirds of the neurons
change their response class when encountering different noises. Therefore, the
distortion induced by one particular masking background in single-unit responses 
is not necessarily predictable from that induced by another, suggesting the low
likelihood of a unique group of noise-invariant neurons across different
background conditions in A1. Regarding noise influence on neural activities, the 
brittle response group showed addition of spiking activity both within and
between phrases of vocalizations relative to clean vocalizations, whereas the
other groups generally showed spiking activity suppression within phrases, and
the alteration between phrases was noise dependent. Overall, the variable
single-unit responses, yet consistent response types, imply that primate A1
performs scene analysis through the collective activity of multiple neurons.NEW &
NOTEWORTHY: The understanding of where and how auditory scene analysis is
accomplished is of broad interest to neuroscientists. In this paper, we
systematically investigated neuronal coding of multiple vocalizations degraded by
two distinct noises at various signal-to-noise ratios in nonhuman primates. In
the process, we uncovered heterogeneity of single-unit representations for
different auditory scenes yet homogeneity of responses across the population.

Copyright Â© 2017 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00476.2016 
PMCID: PMC5296407
PMID: 27881720  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

