

974. Comp Med. 2016;66(5):412-419.

Very Low Doses of Mycobacterium tuberculosis Yield Diverse Host Outcomes in
Common Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Cadena AM(1), Klein EC(2), White AG(1), Tomko JA(1), Chedrick CL(1), Reed DS(3), 
Via LE(4), Lin PL(5), Flynn JL(6).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Department of Immunology,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Division of Laboratory Animal Research, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Center for Vaccine Research, Department of Immunology, University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)Tuberculosis Research Section, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious
Diseases, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, USA; Institute of Infectious Disease and
Molecular Medicine, Department of Pathology, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, 
South Africa.
(5)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital
of Pittsburgh of UPMC, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Department of Immunology,
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
joanne@pitt.edu.

Identifying and refining small-animal models of tuberculosis that recapitulate
aspects of human Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection can contribute to advancing
our understanding of critical facets of the disease. To study the effects of very
low-dose infections with 2 strains of M. tuberculosis on disease progression and 
survival in common marmosets, animals were challenged with strains Erdman and
CDC1551 at doses ranging from 1 to 12 cfu. These data revealed that the
susceptibility of marmosets to M. tuberculosis infection is influenced by strain 
virulence and initial dose. Marmoset infection with the Erdman strain, even at
very low doses, resulted in rapid disease progression associated with severe
weight loss, extensive pathology, and poor survival. By contrast, challenge with 
the less virulent CDC1551 strain resulted in slower disease progression, delayed 
weight loss, and prolonged survival. One marmoset infected with CDC1551 at a very
low dose (approximately 1 cfu) was able to contain and control M. tuberculosis
infection in a subclinical state that persisted as long as 300 d. These findings 
underscore the critical importance of understanding the heterogeneity in host
outcome that can arise in association with different infectious doses and strains
in the marmoset model of tuberculosis.


PMCID: PMC5073067
PMID: 27780009  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

