

980. J Neurophysiol. 2016 Dec 1;116(6):2789-2798. doi: 10.1152/jn.00474.2016. Epub
2016 Oct 5.

Spontaneous activity is correlated with coding density in primary auditory
cortex.

Bender DA(1)(2), Ni R(1), Barbour DL(3).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri; 
and.
(2)Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis,
Missouri.
(3)Laboratory of Sensory Neuroscience and Neuroengineering, Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri; 
and dbarbour@biomed.wustl.edu.

Sensory neurons across sensory modalities and specific processing areas have
diverse levels of spontaneous firing rates (SFRs) in the absence of sensory
stimuli. However, the functional significance of this spontaneous activity is not
well-understood. Previous studies in the auditory system have demonstrated that
different levels of spontaneous activity are correlated with a variety of
physiological and anatomic properties, suggesting that neurons with differing
SFRs make unique contributions to the encoding of auditory stimuli. Additionally,
altered SFRs are a correlate of tinnitus, arising in several auditory areas after
exposure to ototoxic substances and noise trauma. In this study, we recorded
single-unit activity from primary auditory cortex of awake marmoset monkeys while
delivering wide-band random-spectrum stimuli and white Gaussian noise (WGN) to
examine any divergences in stimulus encoding properties across SFR classes. We
found that higher levels of spontaneous activity were associated with both higher
levels of activation relative to suppression across a variety of wide-band
stimuli and higher driven rates in response to WGN. Moreover, response latencies 
to WGN were negatively correlated with the level of activation in response to
both stimulus types. These findings are consistent with a novel view of the role 
spontaneous spiking may play during normal stimulus processing in primary
auditory cortex and how it may malfunction in cases of tinnitus.

Copyright Â© 2016 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00474.2016 
PMCID: PMC5155035
PMID: 27707812  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

