

981. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):373-389. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22456. Epub 2016 Oct 21.

Anatomical and functional neuroimaging in awake, behaving marmosets.

Silva AC(1).

Author information: 
(1)Cerebral Microcirculation Section, Laboratory of Functional and Molecular
Imaging, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 20892.

The common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) is a small New World monkey that has
gained significant recent interest in neuroscience research, not only because of 
its compatibility with gene editing techniques, but also due to its tremendous
versatility as an experimental animal model. Neuroimaging modalities, including
anatomical (MRI) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), complemented
by two-photon laser scanning microscopy and electrophysiology, have been at the
forefront of unraveling the anatomical and functional organization of the
marmoset brain. High-resolution anatomical MRI of the marmoset brain can be
obtained with remarkable cytoarchitectonic detail. Functional MRI of the marmoset
brain has been used to study various sensory systems, including somatosensory,
auditory, and visual pathways, while resting-state fMRI studies have unraveled
functional brain networks that bear great correspondence to those previously
described in humans. Two-photon laser scanning microscopy of the marmoset brain
has enabled the simultaneous recording of neuronal activity from thousands of
neurons with single cell spatial resolution. In this article, we aim to review
the main results obtained by our group and by our colleagues in applying
neuroimaging techniques to study the marmoset brain. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals,
Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77: 373-389, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22456 
PMCID: PMC5318267
PMID: 27706916  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

