

982. J Parasitol. 2017 Feb;103(1):14-21. doi: 10.1645/16-1. Epub 2016 Oct 20.

Platynosomum illiciens (Trematoda: Dicrocoeliidae) in Captive Black-Tufted
Marmoset Callithrix penicillata (Primates: Cebidae) from Brazil: A Morphometric
Analyses with Taxonomic Comments on Species of Platynosomum from Nonhuman
Primates.

Pinto HA(1), Mati VL(1), Pujoni DG(1), Melo AL(1).

Author information: 
(1)Laboratório de Taxonomia e Biologia de Invertebrados, Departamento de
Parasitologia, Instituto de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal de Minas
Gerais. P.O. Box 486, 30123-970, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.

The trematodes belonging to the genus Platynosomum are biliary parasites of birds
and mammals (domestic and wildlife) in tropical and subtropical areas of the
globe. Despite several reports on platynosomosis in captive nonhuman primates,
mainly in South America, the taxonomy of species of Platynosomum that infect
these hosts remains confused, and it is not clear whether the species found in
cats is the same that infects nonhuman primates. Because a detailed morphological
study of Platynosomum from nonhuman primates is lacking, in this study we
analyzed specimens of Platynosomum recovered from the biliary system of
Callithrix penicillata kept in captivity in an animal facility. The helminths
were submitted to morphological and morphometric analyses in a light microscope
and measurements of 16 morphological traits were taken. A kernel density
estimation (KDE) was used to estimate density distributions of the measurements
obtained as well as the occurrence of overlap with the ranges of the measurements
known to 2 other species of Platynosomum previously described from South American
marmosets, Platynosomum amazonensis and Platynosomum marmoseti. A principal
component analysis (PCA) was also performed in order to evaluate the position of 
each of the 3 species in the multivariate gradient of morphometric measurements. 
The occurrence of a growth gradient was also evaluated by analysis of correlation
between the measurements. Besides a great morphological variability, all
specimens obtained from marmosets in this study were identified as Platynosomum
illiciens (Braun, 1901). In addition, the published ranges of the measurements of
P. amazonensis and P. marmoseti were completely contained within the ranges found
in this study as revealed by KDE. The PCA did not show the formation of groups,
and the 3 species were distributed along a growth continuum, also corroborated by
correlation analysis. Therefore, P. amazonensis and P. marmoseti are here
synonymized with P. illiciens. The involvement of wildlife hosts to the
epidemiology of feline platynosomosis and implications for its control are
briefly discussed.

DOI: 10.1645/16-1 
PMID: 27762668  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

