

984. Exp Anim. 2017 Jan 27;66(1):51-60. doi: 10.1538/expanim.16-0073. Epub 2016 Oct
18.

Investigation of sleep-wake rhythm in non-human primates without restraint during
data collection.

Ishikawa A(1), Sakai K, Maki T, Mizuno Y, Niimi K, Oda Y, Takahashi E.

Author information: 
(1)Sleep Science Laboratories, HAMRI Co., Ltd., Ibaraki 306-0128, Japan.

To understand sleep mechanisms and develop treatments for sleep disorders,
investigations using animal models are essential. The sleep architecture of
rodents differs from that of diurnal mammals including humans and non-human
primates. Sleep studies have been conducted in non-human primates; however, these
sleep assessments were performed on animals placed in a restraint chair connected
via the umbilical area to the recording apparatus. To avoid restraints, cables,
and other stressful apparatuses and manipulations, telemetry systems have been
developed. In the present study, sleep recordings in unrestrained cynomolgus
monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) and common marmoset monkeys (Callithrix jacchus)
were conducted to characterize normal sleep. For the analysis of sleep-wake
rhythms in cynomolgus monkeys, telemetry electroencephalography (EEG),
electromyography (EMG), and electrooculography (EOG) signals were used. For the
analysis of sleep-wake rhythms in marmosets, telemetry EEG and EOG signals were
used. Both monkey species showed monophasic sleep patterns during the dark phase.
Although non-rapid eye movement (NREM) deep sleep showed higher levels at the
beginning of the dark phase in cynomolgus monkeys, NREM deep sleep rarely
occurred during the dark phase in marmosets. Our results indicate that the use of
telemetry in non-human primate models is useful for sleep studies, and that the
different NREM deep sleep activities between cynomolgus monkeys and common
marmoset monkeys are useful to examine sleep functions.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.16-0073 
PMCID: PMC5301001
PMID: 27760892  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

