

986. Endocrinology. 2016 Dec;157(12):4817-4828. Epub 2016 Oct 11.

A Sexually Dimorphic Area of the Dorsal Hypothalamus in Mice and Common
Marmosets.

Moe Y(1), Kyi-Tha-Thu C(1), Tanaka T(1), Ito H(1), Yahashi S(1), Matsuda KI(1),
Kawata M(1), Katsuura G(1), Iwashige F(1), Sakata I(1), Akune A(1), Inui A(1),
Sakai T(1), Ogawa S(1), Tsukahara S(1).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Life Science (Y.M., C.K.-T.-T., T.T., H.I., I.S., T.S., S.T.),
Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University, Sakura-ku,
Saitama 338-8570, Japan; Drug Safety Research Laboratories (S.Y., F.I., A.A.),
Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd, Kagoshima 891-1394, Japan; Department
of Anatomy and Neurobiology (K.-I.M., M.K.), Kyoto Prefectural University of
Medicine, Kawaramachi Hirokoji, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto 602-8566, Japan; Department of 
Psychosomatic Internal Medicine (G.K., A.I.), Graduate School of Medical and
Dental Sciences, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima 890-8520, Japan; and Laboratory 
of Behavioral Neuroendocrinology (S.O.), University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8577, Japan.

We found a novel sexually dimorphic area (SDA) in the dorsal hypothalamus (DH) of
mice. The SDA-DH was sandwiched between 2 known male-biased sexually dimorphic
nuclei, the principal nucleus of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the 
calbindin-sexually dimorphic nucleus, and exhibited a female-biased sex
difference in neuronal cell density. The density of neurons in the SDA-DH was
increased in male mice by orchidectomy on the day of birth and decreased in
female mice by treatment with testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, or estradiol
within 5 days after birth. These findings indicate that the SDA-DH is defeminized
under the influence of testicular testosterone, which acts via both directly by
binding to the androgen receptor, and indirectly by binding to the estrogen
receptor after aromatization. We measured the activity of SDA-DH neurons with
c-Fos, a neuronal activity marker, in female mice during maternal and sexual
behaviors. The number of c-Fos-expressing neurons in the SDA-DH of female mice
was negatively correlated with maternal behavior performance. However, the number
of c-Fos-expressing neurons did not change during female sexual behavior. These
findings suggest that the SDA-DH contains a neuronal cell population, the
activity of which decreases in females exhibiting higher performance of maternal 
behavior, but it may contribute less to female sexual behavior. Additionally, we 
examined the brain of common marmosets and found an area that appears to be
homologous with the mouse SDA-DH. The sexually dimorphic structure identified in 
this study is not specific to mice and may be found in other species.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2016-1428 
PMID: 27726418  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

