

988. Zoolog Sci. 2016 Oct;33(5):497-504.

Molecular Cloning of Ghrelin and Characteristics of Ghrelin-Producing Cells in
the Gastrointestinal Tract of the Common Marmoset (Callithrix jacchus).

Takemi S(1), Sakata I(1), Apu AS(1), Tsukahara S(2), Yahashi S(3), Katsuura G(4),
Iwashige F(3), Akune A(3), Inui A(4), Sakai T(2).

Author information: 
(1)1 Area of Regulatory Biology, Division of Life Science, Graduate School of
Science and Engineering,Saitama University, 255 Shimo-okubo, Sakura-ku, Saitama
338-8570, Japan.
(2)2 Area of Life-NanoBio, Division of Strategy Research, Graduate School of
Science and Engineering,Saitama University, 255 Shimo-okubo, Sakura-ku, Saitama
338-8570, Japan.
(3)3 Drug Safety Research Laboratories, Shin Nippon Biomedical Laboratories, Ltd.
(SNBL DSR),2438 Miyanoura, Kagoshima 891-1394, Japan.
(4)4 Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima
University,Kagoshima 890-8544, Japan.

Ghrelin was first isolated from human and rat as an endogenous ligand for the
growth hormone secretagogue receptor (GHS-R). In the present study, we determined
the ghrelin cDNA sequence of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus), a
small-bodied New World monkey, and investigated the distribution of
ghrelin-producing cells in the gastrointestinal tract and localization profiles
with somatostatin-producing cells. The marmoset ghrelin cDNA coding region was
354 base pairs, and showed high homology to that in human, rhesus monkey, and
mouse. Marmoset ghrelin consists of 28 amino acids, and the N-terminal region is 
highly conserved as found in other mammalian species. Marmoset preproghrelin and 
mature ghrelin have 86.3% and 92.9% homology, respectively, to their human
counterparts. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that marmoset ghrelin mRNA is
highly expressed in the stomach, but it is not detected in other tissues of the
gastrointestinal tract. In addition, a large number of ghrelin mRNA-expressing
cells and ghrelin-immunopositive cells were detected in the mucosal layer of the 
stomach, but not in the myenteric plexus. Moreover, all the ghrelin cells
examined in the stomach were observed to be closed-type. Double staining showed
that somatostatin-immunopositive cells were not co-localized with
ghrelin-producing cells; however, a subset of somatostatin-immunopositive cells
is directly adjacent to ghrelin-immunopositive cells. These findings suggest that
the distribution of ghrelin cells in marmoset differs from that in rodents, and
thus the marmoset may be a more useful model for the translational study of
ghrelin in primates. In conclusion, we have clarified the expression and cell
distribution of ghrelin in marmoset, which may represent a useful model in
translational study.

DOI: 10.2108/zs160020 
PMID: 27715422  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

