

989. Sci Rep. 2016 Oct 6;6:34543. doi: 10.1038/srep34543.

ERK/c-Jun Recruits Tet1 to Induce Zta Expression and Epstein-Barr Virus
Reactivation through DNA Demethylation.

Zhang W(1), Han D(1), Wan P(1), Pan P(1), Cao Y(1), Liu Y(1), Wu K(1), Wu J(1).

Author information: 
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virology and College of Life Sciences, Wuhan
University, Wuhan 430072, China.

DNA demethylation plays an essential role in the reactivation of Epstein-Barr
virus (EBV) from latency infection. However, it is unclear how epigenetic
modification is initiated in responding to stimuli. Here, we demonstrate that
ERK/c-Jun signaling is involved in DNA demethylation of EBV immediate early (IE) 
gene Zta in response to 12-O-Tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA) stimulation.
Remarkably, Ser73 phosphorylation of c-Jun facilitates Zta promoter demethylation
and EBV reactivation, whereas knockdown of c-Jun attenuates Zta demethylation and
viral reactivation. More importantly, we reveal for the first time that c-Jun
interacts with DNA dioxygenase Tet1 and facilitates Tet1 to bind to Zta promoter.
The binding of c-Jun and Tet1 to Zta enhances promoter demethylation, resulting
in the activation of Zta, the stimulation of BHRF1 (a lytic early gene) and
gp350/220 (a lytic late gene), and ultimately the reactivation of EBV. Knockdown 
of Tet1 attenuates TPA-induced Zta demethylation and EBV reactivation. Thus, TPA 
activates ERK/c-Jun signaling, which subsequently facilitates Tet1 to bind to Zta
promoter, leading to DNA demethylation, gene expression, and EBV reactivation.
This study reveals important roles of ERK/c-Jun signaling and Tet1 dioxygenase in
epigenetic modification, and provides new insights into the mechanism underlying 
the regulation of virus latent and lytic infection.

DOI: 10.1038/srep34543 
PMCID: PMC5052586
PMID: 27708396  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

