

990. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):244-262. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22458. Epub 2016 Nov 11.

The common marmoset: An overview of its natural history, ecology and behavior.

Schiel N(1), Souto A(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biology, Federal Rural University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
(2)Department of Zoology, Federal University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.

Callithrix jacchus are small-bodied Neotropical primates popularly known as
common marmosets. They are endemic to Northeast Brazil and occur in contrasting
environments such as the humid Atlantic Forest and the dry scrub forest of the
Caatinga. Common marmosets live in social groups, usually containing only one
breeding pair. These primates have a parental care system in which individuals
help by providing assistance to the infants even when they are not related to
them. Free-ranging groups use relatively small home ranges (0.5-5 hectares) and
have an omnivorous diet. Because of the shape of their teeth, they actively gouge
tree bark to extract and consume exudates. When foraging for live prey, they
adjust their strategy according to the type of prey. The successful use of
appropriate hunting strategies depends not only on age but also on prey type and 
seems to be mediated by learning and experience. Indeed, common marmosets have
shown unexpected cognitive abilities, such as true imitation. All these aspects
seem to have contributed to the ecological success of this species. Callithrix
jacchus has been widely studied, especially in captivity; even so, a number of
questions remain to be answered about its biology, ecology, and behavior, both in
captivity and the wild. A richer understanding of marmosets' natural behavior and
ecology can have a significant impact on shaping ongoing and future neuroscience 
research. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77: 244-262, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22458 
PMID: 27706919  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

