

991. J Am Assoc Lab Anim Sci. 2016;55(5):594-600.

The Effect of Anesthesia on Blood Pressure Measured Noninvasively by Using the
Tail-Cuff Method in Marmosets (Callithrix jacchus).

Ansel TV(1), Nour AK(1), Benavente-Perez A(2).

Author information: 
(1)College of Optometry, State University of New York (SUNY), New York, New York,
USA.
(2)College of Optometry, State University of New York (SUNY), New York, New York,
USA. abenavente@sunyopt.edu.

In this study, we evaluated the validity of measuring blood pressure (BP)
noninvasively in marmosets by using the tail-cuff method. The number of
measurements needed for a valid reading was calculated by plotting the average SD
of 5 consecutive readings in 10 naïve marmosets; the SD for both systolic and
diastolic BP readings plateaued after 4 readings. To evaluate how anesthesia
(alphaxalone, 15 mg/kg IM) affected BP in marmosets, we measured 4 animals every 
minute for 60 min after injection. The average length of anesthesia was 47.3 ±
13.2 min. The variability in the systolic and diastolic BP was the smallest at 10
to 30 min after injection (systolic SD, 6.29 mm Hg; diastolic SD, 5.27 mm Hg) and
almost doubled at 30 to 60 min after injection (systolic SD, 13.5 mm Hg;
diastolic SD, 12.3 mm Hg). The within- and between-session repeatability and
reproducibility were calculated by measuring 12 marmosets twice at the same time 
of day (±1 h) 1 wk apart. The coefficients of repeatability and reproducibility
were 1.98% and 14.5% for systolic BP and 3.37% and 16.2% for diastolic BP,
respectively. Our results indicate that using the volumetric tail-cuff method to 
measure BP noninvasively in anesthetized marmosets is safe and feasible. The
measures are least variable within 10 to 30 min after the injection of
anesthetic, and variability increases slightly between sessions.


PMCID: PMC5029832 [Available on 2017-03-01]
PMID: 27657716  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

