

992. Am J Primatol. 2017 Feb;79(2):1-12. doi: 10.1002/ajp.22588. Epub 2016 Sep 19.

Prenatal androgen exposure and parental care interact to influence timing of
reproductive maturation in marmosets.

Huffman MC(1)(2), Santo JB(2), French JA(1)(2)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Callitrichid Research Center, University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Nebraska, Omaha, Nebraska.

The timing of reproductive maturation is susceptible to hormonal and
environmental influences, and variation in this timing can be partially
attributed to the prenatal and post-natal environment. We examined associations
between prenatal steroid exposure and the post-natal family environment on the
variability in reproductive maturation timing in young marmosets (Callithrix
geoffroyi). Urine samples from pregnant females were analyzed for cortisol (CORT)
and androgens (uA). Post-natal uA was measured in males to determine age (in
days) of adult-like levels of androgens associated with spermatogenesis;
post-natal pregnanediol glucuronide (PdG) was measured in females to determine
age (in days) of first ovulation. Maternal, paternal, alloparental, and total
care (carrying, grooming, and rejection/removals) of offspring were observed.
Female offspring exposed to lower prenatal uA levels and higher paternal grooming
and lower maternal rejection/removals showed later first ovulation, whereas
female offspring exposed to higher prenatal uA showed earlier first ovulation.
Male offspring showed earlier reproductive maturation as paternal grooming
increased, regardless of first trimester uA exposure. Male offspring exposed to
low prenatal uA levels showed earlier reproductive maturation as maternal
rejections/removals increased. In offspring exposed to low prenatal CORT, high
total carrying predicted earlier first ovulation in females, but later
reproductive maturation in males. Total carrying duration did not affect timing
of reproductive maturation in offspring exposed to high third trimester CORT
levels. Our findings expand the evolutionary theory of socialization by
demonstrating that the effect of post-natal family environment on timing of
reproductive maturation depends on prenatal uA exposure and also influences
reproductive maturation timing in male offspring.

Â© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22588 
PMID: 27643386  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

