

994. Biopreserv Biobank. 2016 Dec;14(6):530-538. Epub 2016 Sep 7.

Xeno-Free Cryopreservation of Bone Marrow-Derived Multipotent Stromal Cells from 
Callithrix jacchus.

Lauterboeck L(1), Saha D(1), Chatterjee A(1), Hofmann N(1), Glasmacher B(1).

Author information: 
(1)Institute for Multiphase Processes, Leibniz Universität Hannover , Hannover,
Germany .

In the previous decade, numerous biobanks were established and have created large
markets for the storage of bioactive compounds, cells, and tissues for medical
and diagnostic applications. For in vivo clinical and therapeutic purposes, it is
critical to use well-defined and xeno-free components during cultivation,
preservation, and transplantation of biological material. Safe and efficacious
storage of bioactive molecules, cells, and tissues, without the addition of
undefined medium components, minimizes risks of zoonotic disease transmission and
is thus an essential and desirable prerequisite for biobanks. This gives rise to 
a need for well-characterized and serum-free freezing media for application in
cryopreservation. For this purpose, cryobiological additives such as
methylcellulose, poloxamer-188, and α-tocopherol, which have previously been
shown to exhibit a cytoprotective activity, have been investigated for
cryoprotection on stem cells. With this strategy, the application of fetal bovine
serum (FBS) could be avoided and the concentration of toxic cryoprotective agents
such as dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) could be reduced. Our results suggest that the 
viability, as well as the adipogenic and osteogenic differentiation capacity of
the thawed bone marrow-derived multipotent stromal stem cells, could be
maintained using a freezing medium without FBS consisting of methylcellulose,
poloxamer, and α-tocopherol with only 2.5% DMSO (% v/v).

DOI: 10.1089/bio.2016.0038 
PMID: 27603179  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

