

995. Dev Neurobiol. 2017 Mar;77(3):328-353. doi: 10.1002/dneu.22446.

A dimensional approach to modeling symptoms of neuropsychiatric disorders in the 
marmoset monkey.

Oikonomidis L(1)(2), Santangelo AM(1)(2), Shiba Y(1)(2), Clarke FH(1)(2), Robbins
TW(2)(3), Roberts AC(1)(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of
Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, CB2 3DY, United Kingdom.
(2)Behavioural and Clinical Neuroscience Institute, University of Cambridge,
Downing Street, CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Downing Street, Cambridge, 
CB2 3EB, United Kingdom.

Some patients suffering from the same neuropsychiatric disorder may have no
overlapping symptoms whilst others may share symptoms common to other distinct
disorders. Therefore, the Research Domain Criteria initiative recognises the need
for better characterisation of the individual symptoms on which to focus
symptom-based treatment strategies. Many of the disorders involve dysfunction
within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and so the marmoset, due to their highly
developed PFC and small size, is an ideal species for studying the
neurobiological basis of the behavioural dimensions that underlie these
symptoms.Here we focus on a battery of tests that address dysfunction spanning
the cognitive (cognitive inflexibility and working memory), negative valence
(fear generalisation and negative bias) and positive valence (anhedonia) systems 
pertinent for understanding disorders such as ADHD, Schizophrenia, Anxiety,
Depression and OCD. Parsing the separable prefrontal and striatal circuits and
identifying the selective neurochemical modulation (serotonin vs dopamine) that
underlie cognitive dysfunction have revealed counterparts in the clinical domain.
Aspects of the negative valence system have been explored both at individual-
(trait anxiety and genetic variation in serotonin transporter) and circuit-based 
levels enabling the understanding of generalisation processes, negative biases
and differential responsiveness to SSRIs. Within the positive valence system, the
combination of cardiovascular and behavioural measures provides a framework for
understanding motivational, anticipatory and consummatory aspects of anhedonia
and their neurobiological mechanisms. Together, the direct comparison of
experimental findings in marmosets with clinical studies is proving an excellent 
translational model to address the behavioural dimensions and neurobiology of
neuropsychiatric symptoms. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol 77:
328-353, 2017.

© 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dneu.22446 
PMCID: PMC5412688
PMID: 27589556  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

