

997. J Exp Biol. 2016 Sep 1;219(Pt 17):2659-72. doi: 10.1242/jeb.140939.

Effects of support diameter and compliance on common marmoset (Callithrix
jacchus) gait kinematics.

Young JW(1), Stricklen BM(2), Chadwell BA(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH 44272, USA Musculoskeletal Biology Research Focus Area,
NEOMED, Rootstown, OH 44272, USA School of Biomedical Sciences, Kent State
University, Kent, OH 44240, USA jwyoung@neomed.edu.
(2)Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University
(NEOMED), Rootstown, OH 44272, USA.

Locomotion is precarious in an arboreal habitat, where supports can vary in both 
diameter and level of compliance. Several previous studies have evaluated the
influence of substrate diameter on the locomotor performance of arboreal
quadrupeds. The influence of substrate compliance, however, has been mostly
unexamined. Here, we used a multifactorial experimental design to investigate how
perturbations in both diameter and compliance affect the gait kinematics of
marmosets (Callithrix jacchus; N=2) moving over simulated arboreal substrates. We
used 3D-calibrated video to quantify marmoset locomotion over a horizontal
trackway consisting of variably sized poles (5, 2.5 and 1.25 cm in diameter),
analyzing a total of 120 strides. The central portion of the trackway was either 
immobile or mounted on compliant foam blocks, depending on condition. We found
that narrowing diameter and increasing compliance were both associated with
relatively longer substrate contact durations, though adjustments to diameter
were often inconsistent relative to compliance-related adjustments. Marmosets
also responded to narrowing diameter by reducing speed, flattening center of mass
(CoM) movements and dampening support displacement on the compliant substrate.
For the subset of strides on the compliant support, we found that speed, contact 
duration and CoM amplitude explained >60% of the variation in substrate
displacement over a stride, suggesting a direct performance advantage to these
kinematic adjustments. Overall, our results show that compliant substrates can
exert a significant influence on gait kinematics. Substrate compliance, and not
just support diameter, should be considered a critical environmental variable
when evaluating locomotor performance in arboreal quadrupeds.

© 2016. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/jeb.140939 
PMID: 27582562  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

