

999. PLoS One. 2016 Aug 29;11(8):e0162023. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162023.
eCollection 2016.

Viral Vector-Based Dissection of Marmoset GFAP Promoter in Mouse and Marmoset
Brains.

Shinohara Y(1)(2), Konno A(1), Takahashi N(1), Matsuzaki Y(1), Kishi S(2), Hirai 
H(1)(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Neurophysiology & Neural Repair, Gunma University Graduate
School of Medicine, Maebashi, Gunma, Japan.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Gunma University Graduate School of Medicine,
Maebashi, Gunma, Japan.
(3)Research Program for Neural Signalling, Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism 
and Signal Research, Gunma University Initiative for Advanced Research, Maebashi,
Gunma, Japan.

Adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors are small in diameter, diffuse easily in the
brain, and represent a highly efficient means by which to transfer a transgene to
the brain of a large animal. A major demerit of AAV vectors is their limited
accommodation capacity for transgenes. Thus, a compact promoter is useful when
delivering large transgenes via AAV vectors. In the present study, we aimed to
identify the shortest astrocyte-specific GFAP promoter region that could be used 
for AAV-vector-mediated transgene expression in the marmoset brain. The 2.0-kb
promoter region upstream of the GFAP gene was cloned from the marmoset genome,
and short promoters (1.6 kb, 1.4 kb, 0.6 kb, 0.3 kb and 0.2 kb) were obtained by 
progressively deleting the original 2.0-kb promoter from the 5' end. The short
promoters were screened in the mouse cerebellum in terms of their strength and
astrocyte specificity. We found that the 0.3-kb promoter maintained 40% of the
strength of the original 2.0-kb promoter, and approximately 90% of its astrocyte 
specificity. These properties were superior to those of the 1.4-kb, 0.6-kb (20%
promoter strength) and 0.2-kb (70% astrocyte specificity) promoters. Then, we
verified whether the 0.3-kb GFAP promoter retained astrocyte specificity in the
marmoset cerebral cortex. Injection of viral vectors carrying the 0.3-kb marmoset
GFAP promoter specifically transduced astrocytes in both the cerebral cortex and 
cerebellar cortex of the marmoset. These results suggest that the compact 0.3-kb 
promoter region serves as an astrocyte-specific promoter in the marmoset brain,
which permits us to express a large gene by AAV vectors that have a limited
accommodation capacity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0162023 
PMCID: PMC5003399
PMID: 27571575  [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing
interests exist.

